1 
Customs and Excise Department 
Guidance Notes on the 
Competence Assessment for 
Money Service Operators 
December 2022 
 
 
Guidance Notes on the Competence Assessment for Money Service Operators 
Table of Contents 
Page No. 
1. 
Introduction 
3 
2. 
Statutory and Regulatory Requirements 
3 
3. 
Licensing Requirement 
4 
4. 
Eligible Person(s) for the Assessment 
4 
5. 
Mode and Scope of the Assessment 
5 
6. 
Suggested Reference 
5 
7. 
Sample Question 
6 
8. 
Validity of the Assessment’s result
6 
9. 
Documents and Papers for the Assessment 
7 
10. Important Notes to Candidates 
7 
11. Proper Ways of Filing in the Multiple-choice Answer Sheet 
8 
12. Notification of the Results 
10 
13. Severe Weather Arrangements 
10 
14. Other Matters 
10 
15. Enquiries 
11 
2 
 
 
 
 
Guidance Notes on the Competence Assessment 
for Money Service Operators 
1. Introduction 
1.1 
The implementation of Competence Assessment (Assessment) aims at ensuring that 
the senior management of a licensed Money Service Operator (MSO) has a 
fundamental knowledge and clear understanding of anti-money laundering and 
counter-financing of terrorism (AML/CFT) to duly oversee all aspects of the 
AML/CFT systems set out for operating the money service business with a view to 
effectively mitigating the risks of money laundering and terrorist financing (ML/TF) 
arising from the business and complying with the statutory and regulatory AML/CFT 
requirements. The Assessment is conducive to uplifting the compliance level of the 
MSO sector and safeguarding the integrity of the AML/CFT regime under Anti-Money 
Laundering and Counter-Terrorist Financing Ordinance, Chapter 615 (AMLO). 
1.2 
The purpose of this Guidance Notes is to provide candidates with more information 
with respect to the Assessment, especially on the examination format as well as the 
Assessment criteria, so that candidates can better prepare for the Assessment. 
2. Statutory and Regulatory Requirements 
2.1 
Under section 30 and 31 of the AMLO, the Commissioner of Customs and Excise 
(CCE) may grant/renew an MSO licence to an applicant/a licensee only if the CCE is 
satisfied that the sole proprietor/each partner/each director and the ultimate owner of 
the applicant/licensee is a fit and proper (F&P) person to be associated with the 
business of operating a money service. Besides, the sections detail the matters, in 
addition to any other matter that the CCE considers relevant, the CCE must have regard 
to in determining whether an applicant for an MSO licence/a licensee is a F&P person 
in considering the grant/renewal of a licence to operate a money service. 
2.2 
To provide greater clarity to licence applicants as well as licensees on the criteria for 
determining the fitness and propriety of a person, the CCE promulgated the Guideline 
on Criteria for Determining Fitness and Propriety (F&P Guideline) and the 
Supplementary F&P Guideline in April 2018 and January 2020 respectively.
The 
Guidelines provide the matters and examples that the CCE considers relevant in 
determining the F&P status of a person to be associated with the business of operating 
a money service which include, among others, “Whether the person is equipped with 
the skills, knowledge, experience and professionalism necessary to perform the 
business’s functions efficiently and effectively. In making such an assessment, the
person is generally expected to be able to display an understanding of the statutory
and regulatory requirements that apply to the business. Examples are a person who 
did not take or failed to pass the relevant test if any conducted by the Customs and 
Excise Department in the course of processing licence application.” 
3 
 
3. Licensing Requirement 
3.1 
To tie in with the implementation of the Assessment, the application procedures for the 
grant/renewal of an MSO licence stipulated in the Licensing Guide are revised 
accordingly. The Licensing Guide is promulgated by the CCE to set out the licensing 
requirements for an MSO licence under the AMLO and its updated version in March 
2021 provides that at least one member of the senior management of a licence 
applicant/a licensee must pass the Assessment.
The result of the Assessment will
constitute a substantial weighting in the evaluation of the overall F&P person status 
and thus be one of the factors that the CCE will have regard to in considering the grant 
or renewal of an MSO licence.
Failure of a licence applicant/ a licensee to attend or 
pass the Assessment may result in refusal of the licence application. 
4. Eligible Person(s) for the Assessment 
4.1 
An eligible person of an MSO for the Assessment means the person who: 
(i) 
must be the senior management of the licence applicant/licensee in overseeing 
the operation of money service business; 
(ii) 
has a direct involvement in making decision on company policy and governance 
arrangement; and 
(iii) is held accountable in the compliance functions and systems of the company. 
4.2 
The senior management of an MSO is defined as follows: 
(i) 
where the MSO licence applicant/licensee is a natural person – 
(a) the sole proprietor; or 
(b) the partners in the partnership (not more than THREE partners can be 
nominated to participate in the Assessment). 
(ii) 
where the MSO licence applicant/licensee is a legal person, i.e. corporation – 
(a) the sole director of a corporation; or 
(b) the individual directors, who must be natural persons, of a corporation (not 
more than THREE directors can be nominated to participate in the 
Assessment). 
4.3 
Given that the Assessment is conducted on a company basis, the candidates of the same 
company/corporation under an application/an MSO licence must attend the same 
session of the Assessment in all circumstances. 
4.4 
Nomination for eligible person(s) to attend the Assessment would be made by a licence 
applicant / a licensee only for once and under the following circumstances: 
(i) 
A new licence application is filed; 
(ii) 
Within 90 days before the expiry of the licence and the licensee has no eligible 
person who has passed the Assessment; and 
(iii) 
Upon notification by a licensee of the deletion of the only eligible person who 
has passed the Assessment. 
4 
 
 
 
4.5 
For granting an MSO licence, the eligible person(s) of the licence applicant shall attend
the Assessment within 30 days upon attending the interview with the officers of the 
Customs and Excise Department (C&ED). In case that the eligible person(s) of the
applicant fail the Assessment, the applicant will be given another opportunity to 
arrange the eligible person(s) to re-take the Assessment after 30 days upon the 
notification of result. The corresponding licence application could be refused by the 
CCE upon the circumstance that the CCE considers the licence applicant to be not fit 
and proper to operate the money service business. 
4.6 
For renewing an MSO licence, the eligible person(s) of the licensee shall attend the 
Assessment within 30 days upon the issue of reminder letter, which would be delivered 
to each licensee 90 days before the expiry of the licence. In case that the eligible
person(s) of the licensee fail the Assessment, the licensee will be given another 
opportunity to arrange the eligible person(s) to re-take the Assessment after 30 days 
upon the notification of result and before the expiry of the licence.
If all the eligible 
person(s) of the licensee still fail the Assessment before the expiry of the licence, the 
corresponding licence application for licence renewal could be refused upon the 
circumstance that the CCE considers the licensee to be no longer fit and proper to 
operate the money service business. 
5. Mode and Scope of the Assessment 
5.1 
The Assessment comprises 35 multiple-choice questions in Chinese or English 
languages, and there is only one correct answer for each question. Candidates are 
required to complete the Assessment in 1 hour and 15 minutes. 
5.2 
The Assessment is composed of seven modules and each module consists of five 
multiple-choice questions. The seven modules are: 
(1) 
(2) 
(3) 
(4) 
(5) 
(6) 
(7) 
General knowledge on AML/CFT and Counter Proliferation Financing 
Part 1-7 of the AMLO 
Schedules to the AMLO 
Guidelines promulgated by the C&ED 
MSO's systems and controls (i) Institutional governance and strategy 
MSO's systems and controls (ii) AML/CFT control areas 
MSO's systems and controls (iii) Demonstrating and monitoring compliance 
5.3 
To obtain a “Pass” in the Assessment, the candidate must not make more than two 
mistakes in each module AND attain a total score of 25 or above for the entire 
Assessment paper. 
6. Suggested Reference 
6.1 
All the multiple-choice questions of the Assessment are set mainly based on the 
following publicly available materials: 
(1) Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorist Financing Ordinance (Cap. 615) 
(2) Guideline on Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Financing of Terrorism for 
MSOs promulgated by C&ED 
5 
 
 
 
 
(3) Licensing Guide issued by C&ED to MSOs 
(4) Guidelines issued by C&ED to MSOs 
(5) Circulars issued by C&ED to MSOs 
7. Sample Question 
7.1 
The following is the sample question for the Assessment: 
8. Validity of the Assessment’s result 
8.1 
“A pass in the Assessment” is considered by the CCE to be a company-based 
qualification which is also one of the F&P person statuses to be associated with the 
business of operating a money service. 
8.2 
Please note that when the licensee no longer has at least one member of the senior 
management, i.e. the sole proprietor, partner or director, who passed the 
Assessment, the validity of this company-based qualification will be void 
automatically. Under such circumstance, except for the licensee belonging to sole 
proprietorship, the licensee belonging to partnership and corporation will be given an 
opportunity to arrange any eligible person(s) of its senior management to take the 
Assessment within 30 days upon notification to the C&ED of change in partnership or 
directorship. In case that the eligible person(s) fail the Assessment, the licensee will 
be given another opportunity to arrange the eligible person(s) to re-take the Assessment 
after 30 days upon notification of result. For licensees that are due for renewal within 
180 days, the Assessment arrangement will follow para. 4.6 relating to the renewal of 
licence. 
8.3 
Having considered the merits of each case, the CCE may exercise discretion to allow 
the licensee to continue its money service business when none of eligible person of the 
licensee passed the Assessment.
In granting the exemption, the CCE will impose
relevant licensing condition(s) that the CCE deemed appropriate and necessary for
6 
1. What are the three common stages of Money 
Laundering? 
1. Layering 
2. Identifying 
3. Integrating 
4. Placement 
5. Collection 
a) 1,2 and 3 
b) 2,3 and 4 
c) 1,3 and 4 
d) 1,2 and 5 
e) 3,4 and 5 
Correct Answer: C 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ensuring the licensee to have the capability to operate the money service business with 
effective AML/CFT systems. 
9. Documents and Papers for the Assessment 
9.1 
Candidates should present the following documents and papers for inspection when 
attending the Assessment: 
(1) Hong Kong Identity Card or an alternative identification document with photo, e.g. 
valid travel documents; 
(2) Authorization letter, i.e. only for the partnership company and corporation; and 
(3) Assessment invitation letter. 
9.2 
Any candidate who is unable to present the above documents will not be allowed to 
attend the Assessment as scheduled. 
9.3 
If the identification documents presented by a candidate is damaged or defaced, the 
candidate may not be allowed to attend the Assessment. Candidates are therefore 
recommended to carefully inspect their identification documents before the 
Assessment. 
10. Important Notes to Candidates 
10.1 Candidates MUST follow the rules set out in this set of Guidance Notes and instructions 
of the invigilators. Anyone who violates the rules or acts dishonestly in any way during 
the Assessment, is LIABLE TO BE DISQUALIFIED. You may also be requested to 
leave the Assessment centre immediately. 
10.2 Candidates MUST take the Assessment at the time and place specified in the invitation 
letter. 
Any requests for change of Assessment date/time/centre will not be
considered. Once the Assessment has started, you will NOT be allowed to enter the 
premises to take the Assessment. 
Before the Assessment 
10.3 Candidates should check your body temperature before departing for the Assessment 
centre. If you have a fever and/or contagious diseases, you should NOT attend the
Assessment. If you have respiratory symptoms, such as cough and runny nose, you
should put on surgical mask properly whenever you are within the Assessment centre
but will be required by the invigilators to remove your mask for verification of your 
identity. 
10.4 You MUST bring to the Assessment centre your personal identification document, e.g. 
Hong Kong Identity Card, valid local/foreign Passport and etc., AND a printed copy 
of the invitation letter for identity verification. If you fail to produce your personal
identification document for identity verification, you will NOT be allowed to sit
for the Assessment. 
Please note that you may be required to undergo identity
verification at different  stages of the Assessment. 
In case of any doubt on your 
identity, the invigilator may make copy(ies) of your identification document at the 
7 
 
Assessment centre for further verification as and when required. 
10.5 Stationery will be provided at the Assessment centre. 
During the Assessment 
10.6 Do not leave the Assessment centre without permission from the invigilator. 
Early 
leavers must make sure the answer scripts and related materials have been collected by 
the invigilator on the spot. 
Candidates are strictly forbidden to take away any 
question book or answer sheet, whether used or unused, out of the Assessment centre. 
10.7 Only necessary and permitted stationery can be put on the desk. All other personal 
belongings, such as books, dictionaries, notes, paper, notebooks and all kind of 
electronic devices (e.g. calculators, tablets, PDA, mobile phones, Bluetooth headsets, 
pagers, MP3 players, electronic dictionaries, digital cameras/recorders, databank 
watches, smart watches with mobile applications installed or wireless technologies 
supported, etc.), MUST be put under your chair.
Mobile phones must NOT be
covered by anything and should be clearly seen by the invigilators. You must NOT put 
any unauthorized articles (including mobile phones and other electronic devices) on/in 
your desk, on your body or in your pockets during the Assessment. Mobile phones, 
other electronic devices or articles that can emit sound MUST be switched off 
throughout the examination. Please keep safe custody of your personal belongings, the 
C&ED or Assessment centre assumes no responsibility for any loss or damage. 
10.8 You must NOT – 
(a) 
communicate or attempt to communicate improperly with any person inside or 
outside the Assessment centre; or 
(b) 
disturb other candidates in whatever way; or 
(c) 
take photographs, audio-record or video-record inside the Assessment centre. 
10.9 You must mark the answers on the multiple-choice answer sheet provided. 
Answers 
not written on the multiple-choice answer sheet will NOT be marked.
You must 
NOT copy anything from the question book onto the invitation letter, and, or your 
personal belongings or parts of your body. 
11. Proper Ways of Filling in the Multiple-choice Answer Sheet 
11.1 Failure to follow the instructions below may result in your answers being rejected with 
NO MARKS given to you. 
11.2 Before going to the questions, you have to write down the following particulars on the 
multiple-choice answer sheet as instructed by the Presiding Invigilator: 
(a) Name of Company 
: Write down full name of your company in Chinese 
and/or English and in block letters. 
8 
 
(b) Application Number 
: Write down your Application Number. Your 
Application Number is shown in the invitation letter. 
(c) Name of Candidate 
: Write down your full name in Chinese and/or English 
and in block letters. 
(d) Status of Candidate 
: Write down your position in the company. 
(e) Date of Assessment 
: Write down the date you take the Assessment 
(f) Signature of Candidate : Sign your name 
11.3 An example of the instructions at paragraph (11.2) (a) to (f) is given below : 
11.4 Fill in the answer boxes in the same way as the example shown above. 
Erase wrong 
answers thoroughly and do not fold the answer sheet. 
11.5 You will score NO marks for marking two or more answers to the same question. 
11.6 When you fill in an answer, check to see that you are answering the right question. 
9 
 
Any requests for amending the answers made beyond the Assessment time will NOT 
be considered. 
12. Notification of the Results 
12.1 Candidates will only be notified of the results, i.e. PASS or FAIL, by E-MAIL only 
within 14 days after the Assessment.  Please keep this notification as a certification  of 
the Assessment result in any future event. 
12.2 Candidates who are not satisfied with their Assessment results may, within seven days 
after the date of issuance of the result notification, write to the Licensing Control 
Division at Units 402-403, 4/F, Centre Parc, 11 Sheung Yuet Road, Kowloon Bay, 
Kowloon or by e-mail: msoenquiry@customs.gov.hk for re-checking of the 
Assessment papers. Late submission will not be considered. 
12.3 The C&ED will re-check the candidate’s answers of the answer sheet and the result 
will be sent to the candidates concerned in writing within 14 days after receipt of the 
re-checking request. The answer sheet will be re-checked for technical errors such as 
incorrect mark entries and data inconsistencies. 
12.4 The result of the re-checking is final. The C&ED will not disclose the exact scores, 
the Assessment questions and the corresponding correct answers in any case. 
12.5 VERY IMPORTANT: A pass in the Assessment does not necessarily mean that you 
are eligible for a licence. For granting a licence, applicants are also required to meet 
the licensing requirements stipulated in the AMLO and the licensing guide 
promulgated by the C&ED. 
13. Severe Weather Arrangements
13.1 As a general rule, the Assessment will be held as scheduled when typhoon signal No. 3 
or lower, and/or rainstorm signal “Amber” or “Red” is issued by the Hong Kong 
Observatory. If typhoon signal No. 8 or above, and / or rainstorm warning “Black” is 
still hoisted at or after 8:00 a.m. on the scheduled date, the Assessment will be 
suspended. Alternative arrangements, if any, will be published on the website of
Money Service Operators Licensing System on the first working day that follows. 
14. Other Matters 
14.1 The invitation to the Assessment does not imply that a candidate has fully met the
licensing 
requirements 
as 
the 
vetting 
process 
is 
still 
in 
progress. 
Applicants/Licensees who do not meet the licensing requirements will not be further 
considered irrespective of their Assessment results. 
14.2 Where changes to the Assessment arrangements are required by C&ED, candidates will 
be informed by email before the Assessment as soon as practicable. 
14.3 As regards the facilitating arrangements of Assessment available for persons with
10 
 
 
 
 
 
disabilities, candidates may contact the C&ED at 3742 7742 for enquiries.
The 
C&ED may require, as appropriate, the candidates to produce medical proof to confirm 
their disabilities in order to make suitable arrangements. 
14.4 You should not, without permission, enter the offices, classrooms or any area in the 
Assessment centre not open to candidates. C&ED and the Assessment centre should 
not be held responsible for any injury suffered by candidates due to their unauthorized 
entry into the aforesaid places. 
14.5 In case of any dispute, the decision made by the C&ED shall be final and conclusive. 
15. Enquiries 
15.1 You 
may 
find 
more 
information 
about 
the 
Assessment 
at 
https://eservices.customs.gov.hk/MSOS/. You can also make enquiry to the department 
by the following ways: 
(i) 
By phone at 3742 7742 (during office hours from Monday to Friday except 
Public Holidays); 
By post to the Money Service Supervision Bureau, Customs and Excise 
Department at Units 402-403, 4/F, Centre Parc, 11 Sheung Yuet Road, Kowloon 
Bay, Kowloon; 
By fax to 3742 7758; or 
By email to msoenquiry@customs.gov.hk 
(ii) 
(iii) 
(iv) 
- End - 
11 
 
