 
 
 
 
 
 
 Guideline on  
Anti-Money Laundering and 
Counter-Financing of Terrorism 
 
(For Money Service Operators) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
June 2023 
 
 
CONTENTS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
           Page 
 
Chapter 1 
Overview ............................................................................................ 1 
 
Chapter 2 
Risk-based approach ........................................................................... 6 
 
Chapter 3 
AML/CFT Systems ........................................................................... 10 
 
Chapter 4 
Customer due diligence .................................................................... 14 
 
Chapter 5 
Ongoing monitoring ......................................................................... 44 
 
Chapter 6 
Terrorist financing, financial sanctions and proliferation financing 47 
 
Chapter 7 
Suspicious transaction reports and law enforcement requests .......... 51 
 
Chapter 8 
Record-keeping ................................................................................. 60 
 
Chapter 9 
Staff training ..................................................................................... 63 
 
Chapter 10 
Wire transfers ................................................................................... 65 
 
Chapter 11 
Remittance transactions .................................................................... 70 
 
Appendix A 
Illustrative examples  ........................................................................ 72 
 
Glossary of key terms and abbreviations .................................................................... 74 
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
Chapter 1 – OVERVIEW 
 
Introduction 
 
1.1 
 
 
This Guideline is published under section 7 of the Anti-Money Laundering and 
Counter-Terrorist Financing Ordinance, Cap. 615 (AMLO).   
 
1.2 
 
 
Terms and abbreviations used in this Guideline should be interpreted by reference to 
the definitions set out in the Glossary part of this Guideline.  Where applicable, 
interpretation of other words or phrases should follow those set out in the AMLO. 
  
 
1.3 
 
 
This Guideline is issued by the Commissioner of Customs and Excise (CCE) and 
sets out the relevant anti-money laundering and counter-financing of terrorism 
(AML/CFT) statutory and regulatory requirements, and the AML/CFT standards 
which Money Service Operators (MSOs) should meet in order to comply with the 
statutory requirements under the AMLO.  Compliance with this Guideline is 
enforced through the AMLO.  MSOs which fail to comply with this Guideline may 
be subject to disciplinary and other actions under the AMLO for non-compliance 
with the relevant requirements.  Non-compliance with this Guideline by MSOs may 
also reflect adversely on the fitness and properness of their sole proprietor, partner, 
director and ultimate owner (where applicable). 
 
 
1.4 
 
 
This Guideline is intended for use by MSOs and their officers and staff.  This 
Guideline also: 
 
(a) provides a general background on the subjects of money laundering and terrorist 
financing (ML/TF), including a summary of the main provisions of the 
applicable AML/CFT legislation in Hong Kong; and 
(b) provides practical guidance to assist MSOs and their senior management in 
designing and implementing their own policies, procedures and controls in the 
relevant operational areas, taking into consideration their special circumstances 
so as to meet the relevant AML/CFT statutory and regulatory requirements. 
 
 
1.5 
 
 
The relevance and usefulness of this Guideline will be kept under review and it may 
be necessary to issue amendments from time to time. 
 
 
1.6 
 
 
For the avoidance of doubt, the use of the word “must” or “should” in relation to an 
action, consideration or measure referred to in this Guideline indicates that it is a 
mandatory requirement.  Given the significant differences that exist in the 
organisational and legal structures of different MSOs as well as the nature and scope 
of the business activities conducted by them, there exists no single set of universally 
applicable implementation measures.  The content of this Guideline is not intended 
to be an exhaustive list of the means of meeting the statutory and regulatory 
requirements.  MSOs should therefore use this Guideline as a basis to develop 
measures appropriate to their structure and business activities. 
 
s.7, AMLO 1.7 
 
 
This Guideline provides guidance in relation to the operation of the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to the AMLO (Schedule 2).  This will assist MSOs to meet their legal 
and regulatory obligations when tailored by MSOs to their particular business risk 
profile.  
 
2
s.7, AMLO 
1.8 
 
 
A failure by any person to comply with any provision of this Guideline does not by 
itself render the person liable to any judicial or other proceedings but, in any 
proceedings under the AMLO before any court, this Guideline is admissible in 
evidence; and if any provision set out in this Guideline appears to the court to be 
relevant to any question arising in the proceedings, the provision must be taken into 
account in determining that question.  In considering whether a person has 
contravened a provision of Schedule 2, the CCE must have regard to the relevant 
provision in this Guideline. 
 
The nature of money laundering and terrorist financing 
s.1, Sch. 1, 
AMLO 
1.9 
 
 
The term “money laundering” (ML) is defined in section 1 of Part 1 of Schedule 1 
to the AMLO and means an act intended to have the effect of making any property: 
 
(a) that is the proceeds obtained from the commission of an indictable offence under 
the laws of Hong Kong, or of any conduct which if it had occurred in Hong 
Kong would constitute an indictable offence under the laws of Hong Kong; or 
(b) that in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, represents such proceeds, 
 
not to appear to be or so represent such proceeds. 
 
 
1.10 
 
 
There are three common stages in the laundering of money, and they frequently 
involve numerous transactions.  An MSO should be alert to any such sign for 
potential criminal activities.  These stages are: 
 
(a) Placement - the disposal of cash proceeds derived from illegal activities into the 
financial system; 
(b) Layering - separating illicit proceeds from their source by creating complex 
layers of financial transactions designed to disguise the source of the money, 
subvert the audit trail and provide anonymity; and 
(c) Integration - creating the impression of apparent legitimacy to criminally 
derived wealth.  In situations where the layering process succeeds, integration 
schemes effectively return the laundered proceeds back into the general 
financial system and the proceeds appear to be the result of, or connected to, 
legitimate business activities. 
 
s.1, Sch. 1, 
AMLO 
1.11 
 
 
The term “terrorist financing” (TF) is defined in section 1 of Part 1 of Schedule 1 to 
the AMLO and means: 
 
(a) the provision or collection, by any means, directly or indirectly, of any property 
–  
(i) with the intention that the property be used; or 
(ii) knowing that the property will be used, 
in whole or in part, to commit one or more terrorist acts (whether or not the 
property is actually so used);  
(b) the making available of any property or financial (or related) services, by any 
means, directly or indirectly, to or for the benefit of a person knowing that, or 
being reckless as to whether, the person is a terrorist or terrorist associate; or 
(c) the collection of property or solicitation of financial (or related) services, by any 
means, directly or indirectly, for the benefit of a person knowing that, or being 
reckless as to whether, the person is a terrorist or terrorist associate. 
 
3
 
1.12 
 
 
Terrorists or terrorist organisations require financial support in order to achieve their 
aims.  There is often a need for them to obscure or disguise links between them and 
their funding sources.  It follows then that terrorist groups must similarly find ways 
to launder funds, regardless of whether the funds are from a legitimate or illegitimate 
source, in order to be able to use them without attracting the attention of the 
authorities. 
 
Legislation concerned with ML, TF, financing of proliferation of weapons of mass destruction (PF) and 
financial sanctions 
 
1.13 
 
 
The Financial Action Task Force (the FATF) is an inter-governmental body formed 
in 1989. The objectives of the FATF are to set standards and promote effective 
implementation of legal, regulatory and operational measures for combating of ML, 
TF, PF, and other related threats to the integrity of the international financial system.  
The FATF has developed a series of recommendations (FATF Recommendations) 
that are recognised as the international standard for combating of ML, TF and PF.  
They form the basis for a co-ordinated response to these threats to the integrity of 
the financial system and help ensure a level playing field.  In order to ensure full and 
effective implementation of its standards at the global level, the FATF monitors 
compliance by conducting evaluations on jurisdictions and undertakes stringent 
follow-up after the evaluations, including identifying high-risk and other monitored 
jurisdictions which could be subject to enhanced scrutiny by the FATF or counter-
measures by the FATF members and the international community at large.  Many 
major economies have joined the FATF which has developed into a global network 
for international cooperation that facilitates exchanges between member 
jurisdictions.  As a member of the FATF, Hong Kong is obliged to implement the 
latest FATF Recommendations 1 and it is important that Hong Kong complies with 
the international AML/CFT standards in order to maintain its status as an 
international financial centre. 
 
 
1.14 
 
 
The main pieces of legislation in Hong Kong that are concerned with ML, TF, PF 
and financial sanctions are the AMLO, the Drug Trafficking (Recovery of Proceeds) 
Ordinance, Cap. 405 (DTROP), the Organized and Serious Crimes Ordinance, 
Cap. 455 (OSCO), the United Nations (Anti-Terrorism Measures) Ordinance, 
Cap. 575 (UNATMO), the United Nations Sanctions Ordinance, Cap. 537 (UNSO) 
and the Weapons of Mass Destruction (Control of Provision of Services) Ordinance, 
Cap. 526 (WMD(CPS)O).  It is very important that MSOs and their officers and staff 
fully understand their respective responsibilities under the different legislation.  
 
AMLO 
s.23, Sch. 
2, AMLO  
1.15 
 
 
The AMLO imposes requirements relating to customer due diligence (CDD) and 
record-keeping on MSOs and provides the CCE with powers to supervise 
compliance with these requirements and other requirements under the AMLO.  In 
addition, section 23 of Schedule 2 requires MSOs to take all reasonable measures (a) 
to ensure that proper safeguards exist to prevent a contravention of any requirement 
under Parts 2 and 3 of Schedule 2; and (b) to mitigate ML/TF risks. 
 
s.5, AMLO 
1.16 
 
The AMLO makes it a criminal offence if an MSO (a) knowingly; or (b) with the 
intent to defraud the CCE, contravenes a specified provision of the AMLO.  The 
                                                 
1 
The FATF Recommendations can be found on the FATF website www.fatf-gafi.org. 
 
4
 
“specified provisions” are listed in section 5(11) of the AMLO.  If the MSO 
knowingly contravenes a specified provision, it is liable to a maximum term of 
imprisonment of 2 years and a fine of $1 million upon conviction.  If the MSO 
contravenes a specified provision with the intent to defraud the CCE, it is liable to a 
maximum term of imprisonment of 7 years and a fine of $1 million upon conviction. 
 
s.5, AMLO 
1.17 
 
 
The AMLO also makes it a criminal offence if a person who is an employee of an 
MSO or is employed to work for an MSO or is concerned in the management of an 
MSO (a) knowingly; or (b) with the intent to defraud the MSO or the CCE, causes 
or permits the MSO to contravene a specified provision in the AMLO.  If the person 
who is an employee of an MSO or is employed to work for an MSO or is concerned 
in the management of an MSO knowingly contravenes a specified provision he is 
liable to a maximum term of imprisonment of 2 years and a fine of $1 million upon 
conviction.  If that person does so with the intent to defraud the MSO or the CCE he 
is liable to a maximum term of imprisonment of 7 years and a fine of $1 million upon 
conviction.  
 
s.21, 
AMLO 
1.18 
 
 
The CCE may take disciplinary actions against MSOs for any contravention of a 
specified provision in the AMLO.  The disciplinary actions that can be taken include 
publicly reprimanding the MSO; ordering the MSO to take any action for the purpose 
of remedying the contravention; and ordering the MSO to pay a pecuniary penalty 
not exceeding the greater of $10 million or 3 times the amount of profit gained, or 
costs avoided, by the MSO as a result of the contravention.  
 
DTROP 
 
1.19 
 
 
The DTROP contains provisions for the investigation of assets that are suspected to 
be derived from drug trafficking activities, the freezing of assets on arrest and the 
confiscation of the proceeds from drug trafficking activities upon conviction. 
 
OSCO 
 
1.20 
 
 
The OSCO, among other things: 
 
(a) gives officers of the Hong Kong Police and the Customs and Excise Department 
powers to investigate organized crime and triad activities; 
(b) gives the Courts jurisdiction to confiscate the proceeds of organized and serious 
crimes, to issue restraint orders and charging orders in relation to the property 
of a defendant of an offence specified in the OSCO; 
(c) creates an offence of money laundering in relation to the proceeds of indictable 
offences; and 
(d) enables the Courts, under appropriate circumstances, to receive information 
about an offender and an offence in order to determine whether the imposition 
of a greater sentence is appropriate where the offence amounts to an organised 
crime/triad related offence or other serious offences. 
 
UNATMO 
 
1.21 
 
 
The UNATMO is principally directed towards implementing decisions contained in 
relevant United Nations Security Council Resolutions (UNSCRs) aimed at 
preventing the financing of terrorist acts and combating the threats posed by foreign 
terrorist fighters.  Besides the mandatory elements of the relevant UNSCRs, the 
 
5
UNATMO also implements the more pressing elements of the FATF 
Recommendations specifically related to TF. 
s.25, 
DTROP & 
OSCO 
1.22 
 
 
Under the DTROP and the OSCO, a person commits an offence if he deals with any 
property knowing or having reasonable grounds to believe it to represent any 
person’s proceeds of drug trafficking or of an indictable offence respectively.  The 
highest penalty for the offence upon conviction is imprisonment for 14 years and a 
fine of $5 million. 
 
s.6, 7, 8, 
8A, 13 & 
14, 
UNATMO 
1.23 
 
 
The UNATMO, among other things, criminalizes the provision or collection of 
property and making any property or financial (or related) services available to 
terrorists or terrorist associates.  The highest penalty for the offence upon conviction 
is imprisonment for 14 years and a fine.  The UNATMO also permits terrorist 
property to be frozen and subsequently forfeited. 
 
s.25A, 
DTROP & 
OSCO, 
s.12 & 14, 
UNATMO 
1.24 
 
 
The DTROP, the OSCO and the UNATMO also make it an offence if a person fails 
to disclose, as soon as it is reasonable for him to do so, his knowledge or suspicion 
of any property that directly or indirectly, represents a person’s proceeds of, was 
used in connection with, or is intended to be used in connection with, drug 
trafficking, an indictable offence or is terrorist property respectively.  This offence 
carries a maximum term of imprisonment of 3 months and a fine of $50,000 upon 
conviction. 
 
s.25A, 
DTROP & 
OSCO, 
s.12 & 14, 
UNATMO 
1.25 
 
 
“Tipping off” is another offence under the DTROP, the OSCO and the UNATMO.  
A person commits an offence if, knowing or suspecting that a disclosure has been 
made, he discloses to any other person any matter which is likely to prejudice any 
investigation which might be conducted following that first-mentioned disclosure.  
The maximum penalty for the offence upon conviction is imprisonment for 3 years 
and a fine. 
 
UNSO 
 
1.26 
 
 
The UNSO provides for the imposition of sanctions against persons and against 
places outside the People’s Republic of China arising from Chapter 7 of the Charter 
of the United Nations.  Most UNSCRs are implemented in Hong Kong under the 
UNSO. 
 
WMD(CPS)O 
s.4, WMD 
(CPS)O 
1.27 
 
 
The WMD(CPS)O controls the provision of services that will or may assist the 
development, production, acquisition or stockpiling of weapons capable of causing 
mass destruction or that will or may assist the means of delivery of such weapons.  
Section 4 of WMD(CPS)O prohibits a person from providing any services where he 
believes or suspects, on reasonable grounds, that those services may be connected to 
PF.  The provision of services is widely defined and includes the lending of money 
or other provision of financial assistance. 
 
 
 
6
 
Chapter 2 –– RISK-BASED APPROACH 
 
Introduction 
 
2.1 
 
 
The risk-based approach (RBA) is central to the effective implementation of an 
AML/CFT regime.  An RBA to AML/CFT means that jurisdictions, competent 
authorities, and MSOs are expected to identify, assess and understand the ML/TF 
risks to which they are exposed and take AML/CFT measures commensurate with 
those risks in order to manage and mitigate them effectively.  RBA allows an MSO 
to allocate its resources more effectively and apply preventive measures that are 
commensurate with the nature and level of risks, in order to focus its AML/CFT 
efforts in the most effective way.  Therefore, an MSO should adopt an RBA in the 
design and implementation of its AML/CFT policies, procedures and controls 
(hereafter collectively referred to as “AML/CFT Systems”) with a view to managing 
and mitigating ML/TF risks.   
 
Institutional ML/TF risk assessment 
 
2.2 
 
 
The institutional ML/TF risk assessment forms the basis of the RBA, enabling an 
MSO to understand how and to what extent it is vulnerable to ML/TF.  The MSO 
should conduct an institutional ML/TF risk assessment to identify, assess and 
understand its ML/TF risks in relation to: 
 
(a) its customers;  
(b) the countries or jurisdictions its customers are from or in;  
(c) the countries or jurisdictions the MSO has operations in; and  
(d) the products, services, transactions and delivery channels of the MSO.   
 
 
2.3 
 
 
The appropriate steps to conduct the institutional ML/TF risk assessment should 
include: 
 
(a) documenting the risk assessment process which includes the identification and 
assessment of relevant risks supported by qualitative and quantitative analysis 
and information obtained from relevant internal and external sources; 
(b) considering all the relevant risk factors before determining what the level of 
overall risk is, and the appropriate level and type of mitigation to be applied;  
(c) obtaining the approval of senior management on the risk assessment results;  
(d) having a process by which the risk assessment is kept up-to-date; and  
(e) having appropriate mechanisms to provide the risk assessment to the CCE when 
required to do so. 
 
 
2.4 
 
 
In conducting the institutional ML/TF risk assessment, an MSO should holistically 
consider a range of factors, including2: 
 
(a) customer risk factors, for example: 
(i) its target market and customer segments; and 
                                                 
2  MSOs may also make reference to “Guidance for a Risk-Based Approach for Money or Value Transfer 
Services” issued by the FATF in February 2016 for the list of risk indicators associated with the risk 
factors stated in paragraphs [2.4] and [2.15], in determining the level of risks that may be present in 
the business operations of an MSO or its customer base whenever relevant. 
 
7
(ii) the number and proportion of customers identified as high risk; 
(b) country risk factors, for example, the countries or jurisdictions it is exposed to, 
either through its own activities or the activities of customers, especially 
countries or jurisdictions with greater vulnerability identified by credible 
sources3 due to contextual and other risk factors such as: 
(i) the prevalence of corruption, organised crime, or TF; 
(ii) the general level and quality of the jurisdiction’s law enforcement efforts 
related to AML/CFT; 
(iii) the effectiveness of AML/CFT regulatory regimes and controls; and 
(iv) transparency of beneficial ownership4; 
(c) product, service, or transaction risk factors, for example: 
(i) the nature, scale, diversity and complexity of its business; 
(ii) the characteristics of products and services offered, and the extent to which 
they are vulnerable to ML/TF abuse (e.g. the extent of conducting 
occasional transactions); 
(iii) whether the volume and size of its transactions are in line with the usual 
activity of the MSO and the profile of its customers; 
(iv) the extent to which the MSO uses technology, and the extent to which these 
channels are vulnerable to ML/TF abuse; and 
(v) whether the products or services that may inherently favour anonymity;  
(d) delivery or distribution channel risk factors, for example, the distribution 
channels through which the MSO distributes its products or services, including: 
(i) 
the extent to which the MSO deals directly with the customer, the extent to 
which the MSO relies on (or is allowed to rely on) third party to conduct 
CDD or other AML/CFT obligations;  
(ii) the extent to which agent or counterpart networks are used; and 
(iii) the complexity of the payment chain and the settlement systems used 
among operators in the payment chain; 
(e) other risk factors, for example: 
(i) the nature, scale and quality of available ML/TF risk management 
resources, including appropriately qualified staff with access to ongoing 
AML/CFT training and development; 
(ii) compliance and regulatory findings; and 
(iii) results of internal or external audits. 
 
 
2.5 
 
The scale and scope of the institutional ML/TF risk assessment should be 
commensurate with the nature, size and complexity of the MSO’s business. 
 
For MSOs whose businesses are smaller in size or less complex in nature (for 
example, where the range of products and services offered by the MSO are very 
limited or its customers have a homogeneous risk profile), a simpler risk assessment 
approach might suffice.  Conversely, where the MSO’s products and services are 
                                                 
3  “Credible sources” refers to information that is produced by reputable and universally recognised 
international organisations and other bodies that make such information publicly and widely available.  
In addition to the FATF and FATF-style regional bodies, such sources may include, but are not limited 
to, supra-national or international bodies such as the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank 
and the Egmont Group of Financial Intelligence Units, as well as relevant national government bodies 
and non-government organisations. 
4  For example, the availability of adequate, accurate and timely information on the beneficial ownership 
of legal persons and legal arrangements that can be obtained or accessed in a timely fashion by 
competent authorities in the country or jurisdiction. 
 
8
more varied and complex, or the MSO’s customers have more diverse risk profiles, 
a more sophisticated risk assessment process will be required. 
 
 
2.6 
 
 
The institutional ML/TF risk assessment should consider quantitative and qualitative 
information obtained from relevant internal and external sources to identify, manage 
and mitigate the risks.  This may include consideration of relevant risk assessments 
and guidance by the FATF, inter-governmental organisations, governments and 
authorities from time to time, including Hong Kong’s jurisdiction-wide ML/TF risk 
assessment and any higher risks notified to the MSOs by the CCE. 
 
 
2.7 
 
 
A locally-incorporated MSO with branches or subsidiaries, including those located 
outside Hong Kong, should perform a group-wide ML/TF risk assessment.  
 
 
2.8 
For the purpose of paragraphs [2.2] and [2.7], if an MSO is a part of a financial group 
and a group-wide or regional ML/TF risk assessment has been conducted, it may 
make reference to or rely on those assessments provided that the assessments 
adequately reflect ML/TF risks posed to the MSO in the local context. 
 
 
2.9 
 
 
To keep the institutional ML/TF risk assessment up-to-date, an MSO should conduct 
its assessment every two years and upon trigger events which are material to the 
MSO’s business and risk exposure.  Trigger events may include a significant breach 
of the MSO’s AML/CFT Systems, the acquisition of new customer segments or 
delivery channels, the launch of new products and services by the MSO, or any 
significant changes of the MSO’s operational processes, target customers and 
business counterparts.  Results of the review should be documented and approved 
by the MSO’s senior management. 
 
 
2.10 
An MSO should maintain records and relevant documents of the institutional ML/TF 
risk assessment, including the risk factors identified and assessed, the information 
sources taken into account, and the evaluation made on the adequacy and 
appropriateness of the MSO’s AML/CFT Systems. 
 
New products, new business practices and use of new technologies 
 
2.11 
 
 
An MSO should identify and assess the ML/TF risks that may arise in relation to: 
 
(a) the development of new products and new business practices, including new 
delivery mechanisms; and 
(b) the use of new or developing technologies for both new and pre-existing 
products. 
 
 
2.12 
 
 
An MSO should undertake the risk assessment prior to the launch of the new 
products, new business practices, or the use of new or developing technologies, and 
should take appropriate measures to manage and mitigate the risks identified. 
 
Customer risk assessment 
 
2.13 
 
 
An MSO should assess the ML/TF risks associated with a customer or a proposed 
business relationship, which is usually referred to as a customer risk assessment.  
The assessment conducted at the initial stage of the CDD process would determine 
 
9
the extent of CDD measures to be applied5.  This means that the amount and type of 
information obtained, and the extent to which this information is verified, should be 
increased where the ML/TF risks associated with the business relationship are 
higher.  It may also be simplified where the ML/TF risks associated with the business 
relationship are lower.  The risk assessment conducted will also assist the MSO to 
differentiate between the risks of individual customers and business relationships, as 
well as apply appropriate and proportionate CDD and risk mitigating measures6.  
 
 
2.14 
 
 
 
 
 
Based on a holistic view of the information obtained in the context of the application 
of CDD measures, an MSO should be able to  finalise the customer risk assessment7, 
which determines the level and type of ongoing monitoring (including ongoing CDD 
and transaction monitoring), and support the MSO’s decision whether to enter into, 
continue or terminate, the business relationship.  As the customer risk profile will 
change over time, an MSO should review and update the risk assessment of a 
customer from time to time, particularly during ongoing monitoring.  
 
 
2.15 
 
 
Similar to other parts of the AML/CFT Systems, an MSO should adopt an RBA in 
the design and implementation of its customer risk assessment framework, and the 
complexity of the framework should be commensurate with the nature and size of 
the MSO’s business, and should be designed based on the results of MSO’s 
institutional ML/TF risk assessment.  In general, the customer risk assessment 
framework will include customer risk factors; country risk factors; and product, 
service, transaction or delivery channel risk factors8.   
 
s.20(1)(b)(
ii), Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
2.16 
 
 
An MSO should keep records and relevant documents of its customer risk 
assessments so that it can demonstrate to the CCE, among others: (a) how it assesses 
the customer’s ML/TF risks; and (b) the extent of CDD measures and ongoing 
monitoring is appropriate based on that customer’s ML/TF risks. 
  
                                                 
5  For the avoidance of doubt, except for certain situations specified in Chapter 4, an MSO should always 
apply all the CDD measures set out in paragraph [4.1.3] and conduct ongoing monitoring of its 
customers.  
6  An MSO should adopt a balanced and common sense approach when conducting a customer risk 
assessment and applying CDD measures, which should not pose an unreasonable barrier to bona fide 
business and individuals accessing services offered by the MSO.  
7  This is sometimes also called a “customer risk profile”. 
8  Further guidance can be found in Chapter 4. 
 
10
Chapter 3 – AML/CFT SYSTEMS  
 
AML/CFT Systems 
s.23, 
Sch. 
2, AMLO 
3.1 
 
 
An MSO must take all reasonable measures to ensure that proper safeguards exist to 
mitigate the risks of ML/TF and to prevent a contravention of any requirement under 
Part 2 or 3 of Schedule 2.  To ensure compliance with this requirement, the MSO 
should implement appropriate internal AML/CFT Systems following the RBA as 
stated in paragraph [2.1].  
 
 
3.2 
 
An MSO should: 
 
(a) have AML/CFT Systems, which are approved by senior management, to enable 
the MSO to effectively manage and mitigate the risks that are relevant to the 
MSO;  
(b) monitor the implementation of those AML/CFT Systems referred to in (a), and 
to enhance them if necessary; and  
(c) take enhanced measures to manage and mitigate the risks where higher risks are 
identified. 
 
 
3.3 
 
 
The nature, scale and complexity of AML/CFT Systems may be simplified provided 
that:  
 
(a) an MSO complies with the statutory requirements set out in the Schedule 2  to 
the AMLO and the requirements set out in paragraphs [2.2], [2.3] and [3.2];   
(b) the lower ML/TF risks which form the basis for doing so have been identified 
through an appropriate risk assessment (e.g. institutional ML/TF risk 
assessment); and 
(c) simplified AML/CFT Systems, which are approved by senior management, are 
subject to review from time to time.  
 
However, AML/CFT Systems are not permitted to be simplified whenever there is a 
suspicion of ML/TF. 
 
 
3.4 
 
An MSO should implement AML/CFT Systems having regard to the nature, size and 
complexity of its businesses and the ML/TF risks arising from those businesses, and 
which should include: 
 
(a) compliance management arrangements;  
(b) an independent audit function; 
(c) employee screening procedures; and  
(d) an ongoing employee training programme (see Chapter 9). 
 
Compliance management arrangements 
 
3.5 
 
 
An MSO should have appropriate compliance management arrangements that 
facilitate the MSO to implement AML/CFT Systems to comply with relevant legal 
and regulatory obligations as well as to manage ML/TF risks effectively.  
Compliance management arrangements should, at a minimum, include oversight by 
the MSO’s senior management, and appointment of a Compliance Officer (CO) and 
 
11
a Money Laundering Reporting Officer (MLRO) 9.  
 
Senior management oversight 
 
3.6 
 
 
Effective ML/TF risk management requires adequate governance arrangements.  
The board of directors or its delegated committee (where applicable), and senior 
management of an MSO should have a clear understanding of its ML/TF risks and 
ensure that the risks are adequately managed.  Management information regarding 
ML/TF risks and the AML/CFT Systems should be communicated to them in a 
timely, complete, understandable and accurate manner so that they are equipped to 
make informed decisions.   
 
 
3.7 
 
 
The senior management of an MSO is responsible for implementing effective 
AML/CFT Systems that can adequately manage the ML/TF risks identified.  In 
particular, the senior management should appoint a CO at the management level to 
have the overall responsibility for the establishment and maintenance of the MSO’s 
AML/CFT Systems; and a senior staff as the MLRO to act as the central reference 
point for suspicious transaction reporting. 
 
 
3.8 
 
 
In order that the CO and MLRO can discharge their responsibilities effectively, 
senior management should, as far as practicable, ensure that the CO and MLRO are: 
 
(a) appropriately qualified with sufficient AML/CFT knowledge; 
(b) subject to constraint of size of the MSO, independent of all operational and 
business functions;  
(c) normally based in Hong Kong; 
(d) of a sufficient level of seniority and authority within the MSO; 
(e) provided with regular contact with, and when required, direct access to senior 
management to ensure that senior management is able to satisfy itself that the 
statutory obligations are being met and that the business is taking sufficiently 
effective measures to protect itself against the risks of ML/TF;  
(f) fully conversant with the MSO’s statutory and regulatory requirements and the 
ML/TF risks arising from the MSO’s business;  
(g) capable of accessing, on a timely basis, all available information (both from 
internal sources such as CDD records and external sources such as circulars 
from  the CCE); and 
(h) equipped with sufficient resources, including staff and appropriate cover for the 
absence of the CO and MLRO (i.e. an alternate or deputy CO and MLRO who 
should, where practicable, have the same status). 
 
Compliance officer and money laundering reporting officer 
 
 
3.9 
 
 
The principal function of the CO is to act as the focal point within an MSO for the 
oversight of all activities relating to the prevention and detection of ML/TF, and 
providing support and guidance to the senior management to ensure that ML/TF risks 
are adequately identified, understood and managed.  In particular, the CO should 
assume responsibility for:  
 
(a) developing and/or continuously reviewing the MSO’s AML/CFT Systems, 
                                                 
9  Depending on the size of an MSO, the functions of CO and MLRO may be performed by the same 
person.  
 
12
including any group-wide AML/CFT Systems in the case of a Hong Kong-
incorporated MSO, to ensure they remain up-to-date, meet current statutory and 
regulatory requirements and are effective in managing ML/TF risks arising 
from the MSO’s business; 
(b) overseeing all aspects of the MSO’s AML/CFT Systems which include 
monitoring effectiveness and enhancing the controls and procedures where 
necessary; 
(c) communicating key AML/CFT issues with senior management, including, 
where appropriate, significant compliance deficiencies; and 
(d) ensuring AML/CFT staff training is adequate, appropriate and effective.  
 
 
3.10 
 
 
An MSO should appoint an MLRO as a central reference point for reporting 
suspicious transactions and also as the main point of contact with the Joint Financial 
Intelligence Unit (JFIU) and law enforcement agencies.  The MLRO should play an 
active role in the identification and reporting of suspicious transactions.  Principal 
functions of the MLRO should include having oversight of : 
 
(a) review of internal disclosures and exception reports and, in light of all available 
relevant information, determining whether or not it is necessary to make a report 
to the JFIU; 
(b) maintenance of all records related to such internal reviews; and 
(c) provision of guidance on how to avoid “tipping off”. 
 
Independent Audit function  
 
3.11 
 
 
An MSO should establish an independent audit function which should have a direct 
line of communication to the senior management of the MSO.  The function should 
have sufficient expertise and resources to enable it to carry out its responsibilities, 
including independent reviews of the MSO’s AML/CFT Systems. 
 
 
3.12 
 
 
The audit function should regularly review the AML/CFT Systems to ensure 
effectiveness.  The review should include, but not be limited to: 
 
(a) adequacy of the MSO’s AML/CFT Systems, ML/TF risk assessment framework 
and application of RBA;  
(b) effectiveness of suspicious transaction reporting systems; 
(c) effectiveness of the compliance function; and 
(d) level of awareness of staff having AML/CFT responsibilities.  
 
 
3.13 
 
The frequency and extent of the review should be commensurate with the nature, 
size and complexity of its business and the ML/TF risks arising from those 
businesses.  Where appropriate, the MSO should also seek a review from external 
parties.   
 
Employee screening 
 
3.14 
 
An MSO should have adequate and appropriate screening procedures in order to 
ensure high standards when hiring employees.  
 
 
 
 
 
13
Group-wide AML/CFT Systems 
 
3.15 
 
 
Subject to paragraphs [3.18] and [3.19], a Hong Kong-incorporated MSO with 
overseas branches or subsidiary undertakings that carry on the same business as  a 
financial institution (FI) as defined in the AMLO should implement group-wide 
AML/CFT Systems to apply the requirements set out in this Guideline10 to all of its 
overseas branches and subsidiary undertakings in its financial group, wherever the 
requirements in this Guideline are relevant and applicable to the overseas branches 
and subsidiary undertakings concerned. 
 
s.22(1), 
Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
 
 
3.16 
 
In particular, a Hong Kong-incorporated MSO should, through its group-wide 
AML/CFT Systems, ensure that all of its overseas branches and subsidiary 
undertakings that carry on the same business as an FI as defined in the AMLO, have 
procedures in place to ensure compliance with the CDD and record-keeping 
requirements similar to those imposed under Parts 2 and 3 of Schedule 2, to the 
extent permitted by the laws and regulations of that place. 
 
 
3.17 
 
 
To the extent permitted by the laws and regulations of the jurisdictions involved and 
subject to adequate safeguards on the protection of confidentiality and use of 
information being shared, including safeguards to prevent tipping off, a Hong Kong-
incorporated MSO should also implement measures, through its group-wide 
AML/CFT Systems, for: 
 
(a) sharing information required for the purposes of CDD and ML/TF risk 
management; and 
(b) provision to the MSO’s group-level compliance, audit and/or AML/CFT 
functions, of customer, account, and transaction information from its overseas 
branches and subsidiary undertakings that carry on the same business as an FI 
as defined in the AMLO, when necessary for AML/CFT purposes11.  
 
 
3.18 
 
 
If the AML/CFT requirements in the jurisdiction where the overseas branch or 
subsidiary undertaking of a Hong Kong-incorporated MSO is located (host 
jurisdiction) differ from those relevant requirements referred to in paragraph [3.15], 
the MSO should require that branch or subsidiary undertaking to apply the higher of 
the two sets of requirements, to the extent that host jurisdiction’s laws and 
regulations permit. 
 
s.22(2), 
Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
 
3.19 
 
If the laws and regulations of the host jurisdiction do not permit the branch or 
subsidiary undertaking of a Hong Kong-incorporated MSO to apply the higher 
AML/CFT requirements, particularly the CDD and record-keeping requirements 
imposed under Parts 2 and 3 of Schedule 2, the MSO should:  
 
(a) inform the CCE of such failure; and 
(b) take additional measures to effectively mitigate ML/TF risks faced by the 
branch or subsidiary undertaking as a result of its inability to comply with the 
requirements. 
                                                 
10  For the avoidance of doubt, these include, but not limited to, the requirements set out in paragraph 
[3.4].  
11  This should include information and analysis of transactions or activities which appear unusual (if 
such analysis was done); and could include a suspicious transaction report, its underlying information, 
or the fact that a suspicious transaction report has been submitted.  Similarly, branches and subsidiary 
undertakings should receive such information from these group-level functions when relevant and 
appropriate to risk management.  
 
14
Chapter 4 - CUSTOMER DUE DILIGENCE 
4.1 
What CDD measures are 
s.19(3), 
Sch. 2, 
AMLO   
 
 
4.1.1 
 
The AMLO defines what CDD measures are (see paragraph [4.1.3]) and also 
prescribes the circumstances in which an MSO must carry out CDD (see paragraph 
[4.2]).  This Chapter provides guidance in this regard.  Wherever possible, this 
Guideline gives MSOs a degree of discretion in how they comply with the AMLO 
and put in place procedures for this purpose.  In addition, an MSO should, in respect 
of each kind of customer, business relationship, product and transaction, establish 
and maintain effective AML/CFT Systems for complying with the CDD 
requirements set out in this Chapter. 
 
 
4.1.2 
 
 
An MSO should apply an RBA when conducting CDD measures and the extent of 
CDD measures should be commensurate with the ML/TF risks associated with a 
business relationship.  Where the ML/TF risks are high, the MSO should conduct 
enhanced due diligence (EDD) measures (see paragraph [4.9]).  In low risk 
situations, the MSO may apply simplified due diligence (SDD) measures (see 
paragraph [4.8]). 
 
s.2(1), Sch. 
2, AMLO   
4.1.3 
 
The following are CDD measures applicable to an MSO: 
 
(a) identify the customer and verify the customer’s identity using documents, data 
or information provided by a reliable and independent source (see paragraph 
[4.3]); 
(b) where there is a beneficial owner in relation to the customer, identify and take 
reasonable measures to verify the beneficial owner’s identity so that the MSO 
is satisfied that it knows who the beneficial owner is, including in the case of a 
legal person or trust12, measures to enable the MSO to understand the ownership 
and control structure of the legal person or trust (see paragraph [4.4]);  
(c) obtain information on the purpose and intended nature of the business 
relationship (if any) established with the MSO unless the purpose and intended 
nature are obvious (see paragraph [4.6]); and  
(d) if a person purports to act on behalf of the customer: 
(i) identify the person and take reasonable measures to verify the person’s 
identity using documents, data or information provided by a reliable and 
independent source; and  
(ii) verify the person’s authority to act on behalf of the customer (see paragraph 
[4.5]). 
 
 
4.1.4 
 
The term “customer” is defined in the AMLO to include a client.  The meaning of 
“customer” and “client” should be inferred from its everyday meaning and in the 
context of the industry practice. 
 
 
4.1.5 
 
 
In general, the term “customer” refers to the party, or parties, with whom a business 
relationship is established, or for whom a transaction is carried out by an MSO.  This 
generally excludes the third parties of a transaction.  For example, an ordering MSO 
                                                 
12  For the purpose of this guideline, a trust means an express trust or any similar arrangement for which 
a legal-binding document (i.e. a trust deed or in any other forms) is in place.  
 
 
15
in an outward wire transfer transaction does not regard the beneficiary (who has no 
other relationship with the MSO) as its customer. 
 
4.2  
When CDD measures must be carried out 
s.3(1)&(1A
), Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
4.2.1 
 
An MSO must carry out CDD measures in relation to a customer: 
 
(a) before establishing a business relationship with the customer;  
(b) before carrying out for the customer an occasional transaction13:  
(i) involving an amount equal to or above $120,000 or an equivalent amount 
in any other currency;  
(ii) that is a wire transfer involving an amount equal to or above $8,000 or an 
equivalent amount in any other currency; or 
(iii) that is a virtual asset transfer14 involving virtual assets that amount to no 
less than $8,000;  
whether the transaction is carried out in a single operation or in several 
operations that appear to the MSO to be linked; 
(c) when the MSO suspects that the customer or the customer’s account is involved 
in ML/TF15; or 
(d) when the MSO doubts the veracity or adequacy of any information previously 
obtained for the purpose of identifying the customer or for the purpose of 
verifying the customer’s identity.  
 
s.1, Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
4.2.2 
 
“Business relationship” between a person and an MSO is defined in the AMLO as a 
business, professional or commercial relationship: 
 
(a) that has an element of duration; or 
(b) that the MSO, at the time the person first contacts it in the person’s capacity as 
a potential customer of the MSO, expects to have an element of duration. 
 
s.1, Sch. 2, 
AMLO   
 
4.2.3 
 
 
“Occasional transaction” is defined in the AMLO as a transaction between an MSO 
and a customer who does not have a business relationship with the MSO. 
 
 
4.2.4 
 
 
An MSO should be vigilant to the possibility that a series of linked occasional 
transactions could meet or exceed the CDD thresholds of $8,000 (for wire transfers 
or virtual asset transfers involving virtual assets) and $120,000 (for other types of 
transactions).  Where the MSO becomes aware that these thresholds are met or 
exceeded, CDD measures should be carried out. 
 
 
4.2.5 
 
The factors linking occasional transactions are inherent in the characteristics of the 
transactions – for example, where several payments are made to the same recipient 
from one or more sources over a short period, where a customer regularly transfers 
funds to one or more destinations.  In determining whether the transactions are in 
fact linked, an MSO should consider these factors against the timeframe within 
which the transactions are conducted.  
 
                                                 
13  Occasional transactions may include for example, wire transfers, virtual asset transfers, remittance 
service, currency exchanges, purchase of cashier orders or gift cheques. 
14  Also see the requirements of section 13A of Schedule 2. 
15  This criterion applies irrespective of the $120,000 or $8,000 threshold applicable to occasional 
transactions set out in paragraph [4.2.1(b)]. 
 
16
Third-party cash transactions 
 
4.2.6 
 
 
Cash transactions may be made by third parties other than the customer.  Such 
transactions may represent an increased risk of ML, especially when a large cash 
deposit that is not consistent with the risk profile of the customer is made.  When a 
cash transaction involving an amount equal to or exceeding $120,000 is undertaken 
by a person whose name does not appear on the mandate of an account, an MSO 
should ask for the person’s identity document and retain a copy to facilitate its 
ongoing monitoring. 
 
4.3  
Identification and verification of the customer’s identity   
s.2(1)(a), 
Sch. 2, 
AMLO   
     
4.3.1 
 
 
The MSO must identify the customer and verify the customer’s identity by reference 
to documents, data or information provided by a reliable and independent source16:  
 
(a) a governmental body; 
(b) the CCE or any other relevant authority (RA); 
(c) an authority in a place outside Hong Kong that performs functions similar to 
those of the CCE or any other RA; 
(d) a digital identification system that is recognized by the CCE; or 
(e) any other reliable and independent source that is recognized by the CCE. 
 
Customer that is a natural person17 
s.2(1)(a), 
Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
4.3.2 
 
 
For a customer that is a natural person, an MSO should identify the customer by 
obtaining at least the following identification information: 
 
(a) full name; 
(b) date of birth; 
(c) nationality; and 
(d) unique identification number (e.g. identity card number or passport number) and 
document type. 
 
s.2(1)(a), 
Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
4.3.3 
 
 
In verifying the identity of a customer that is a natural person, an MSO should verify 
the name, date of birth, unique identification number and document type of the 
customer by reference to documents, data or information provided by a reliable and 
independent source, examples of which include: 
 
(a) Hong Kong identity card or other national identity card; 
(b) valid travel document (e.g. unexpired passport); or 
(c) other relevant documents, data or information provided by a reliable and 
independent source (e.g. document issued by a government body). 
 
 
 
4.3.4 
 
 
The identification document obtained by an MSO should contain a photograph of 
the customer.  In exceptional circumstances where an MSO is unable to obtain an 
identification document with a photograph, the MSO may accept an identification 
document without a photograph if the associated risks have been properly assessed 
and mitigated. 
 
 
4.3.5 
An MSO should obtain the residential address information of a customer that is a 
                                                 
16   Appendix A contains a list of documents recognized by the CCE as independent and reliable sources 
for identity verification purposes. 
17   For the purpose of this Guideline, the terms “natural person” and “individual” are used interchangeably.  
 
17
natural person18.   
 
Customer that is a legal person19  
s.2(1)(a), 
Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
 
4.3.6 
 
 
For a customer that is a legal person, an MSO should identify the customer by 
obtaining at least the following identification information: 
 
(a) full name; 
(b) date of incorporation, establishment or registration; 
(c) place of incorporation, establishment or registration (including address of 
registered office); 
(d) unique identification number (e.g. incorporation number or business 
registration number) and document type; and  
(e) principal place of business (if different from the address of registered office).  
 
s.2(1)(a), 
Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
 
4.3.7 
 
 
In verifying the identity of a customer that is a legal person, an MSO should normally 
verify its name, legal form, current existence (at the time of verification) and powers 
that regulate and bind the legal person by reference to documents, data or 
information provided by a reliable and independent source, examples of which 
include20: 
 
(a) certificate of incorporation; 
(b) record in an independent company registry; 
(c) certificate of incumbency;  
(d) certificate of good standing;  
(e) record of registration; 
(f) partnership agreement or deed;  
(g) constitutional document; or 
(h) other relevant documents, data or information provided by a reliable and 
independent source (e.g. document issued by a government body). 
 
 
4.3.8 
 
 
For a customer that is a partnership or an unincorporated body, confirmation of the 
customer’s membership of a relevant professional or trade association is likely to be 
sufficient to verify the identity of the customer as required in paragraph [4.3.7] 
provided that:  
 
(a) the customer is a well-known, reputable organisation; 
(b) the customer has a long history in its industry; and 
(c) there is substantial public information about the customer, its partners and 
controllers.  
 
                                                 
18   For the avoidance of doubt, an MSO may, under certain circumstances, require verification (on top of 
collection) of residential address from a customer for other purposes (e.g. group requirements, other 
local or overseas legal and regulatory requirements).  In such circumstances, the MSO should 
communicate clearly to the customer the reasons of requiring verification of address. 
19  Legal person refers to any entities other than natural person that can establish a permanent customer 
relationship with an MSO or otherwise own property.  This can include companies, bodies corporate, 
foundations, anstalt, partnerships, associations or other relevantly similar entities. 
20  In some instances, an MSO may need to obtain more than one document to meet this requirement.  For 
example, a certificate of incorporation can only verify the name and legal form of the legal person in 
most circumstances but cannot act as a proof of current existence.  
 
18
 
4.3.9 
 
 
In the case of associations, clubs, societies, charities, religious bodies, institutes, 
mutual and friendly societies, co-operative and provident societies, an MSO should 
satisfy itself as to the legitimate purpose of the organisation, e.g. by requesting sight 
of the constitution. 
 
Customer that is a trust or other similar legal arrangement21 
s.2(1)(a), 
Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
 
4.3.10 
 
 
In respect of trusts, an MSO should identify and verify the trust as a customer in 
accordance with the requirements set out in paragraphs [4.3.11] and [4.3.12].  The 
MSO should also regard the trustee22 as its customer if the trustee enters into a 
business relationship or carries out occasional transactions on behalf of the trust, 
which is generally the case if the trust does not possess a separate legal personality.  
In such a case, the MSO should identify and verify the identity of the trustee in line 
with the identification and verification requirements for a customer that is a natural 
person or a legal person, where applicable. 
 
s.2(1)(a), 
Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
 
4.3.11 
 
 
For a customer that is a trust or other similar legal arrangement, an MSO should 
identify the customer by obtaining at least the following identification information: 
 
(a) name of the trust or legal arrangement; 
(b) date of establishment or settlement; 
(c) the jurisdiction whose laws govern the trust or legal arrangement; 
(d) unique identification number (if any) granted by any applicable official bodies 
and document type (e.g. tax identification number or registered charity or non-
profit organisation number); and 
(e) address of registered office (if applicable). 
 
s.2(1)(a), 
Sch. 2,  
AMLO 
 
4.3.12 
 
 
In verifying the identity of a customer that is a trust or other similar legal 
arrangement, an MSO should normally verify its name, legal form, current 
existence(at the time of verification) and powers that regulate and bind the trust or 
other similar legal arrangement by reference to documents, data or information 
provided by a reliable and independent source, examples of which include: 
 
(a) trust deed or similar instrument23; 
(b) record of an appropriate register24 in the relevant country of establishment; 
(c) written confirmation from a trustee acting in a professional capacity25;  
(d) written confirmation from a lawyer who has reviewed the relevant instrument; 
                                                 
21  Examples of legal arrangement include fiducie, treuhand and fideicomiso.  
22  For the avoidance of doubt, the AMLO defines a beneficial owner in relation to a trust to include 
trustee (see paragraph [4.4.10]).  Depending on the nature of the roles and activities which the trustee 
is authorised to conduct (e.g. if a trustee is also regarded as the customer or the person purporting to 
act on behalf of the customer or the PPTA), an MSO should apply the higher of the relevant 
requirements set out in this Guideline for the purpose of identification and verification of the identity 
of the trustee. 
23  Under exceptional circumstance, the MSO may choose to retain a redacted copy.  
24  In determining whether a register is appropriate, the MSO should have regard to adequate transparency 
(e.g. a system of central registration where a national registry records details on trusts and other legal 
arrangements registered in that country).  Changes in ownership and control information would need 
to be kept up-to-date. 
25  “Trustees acting in their professional capacity” in this context means that they act in the course of a 
profession or business which consists of or includes the provision of services in connection with the 
administration or management of trusts (or a particular aspect of the administration or management of 
trusts). 
 
19
or 
(e) written confirmation from a trust company which is within the same financial 
group as the MSO, if the trust concerned is managed by that trust company.  
 
Reliability of documents, data or information 
 
4.3.13 
 
 
In verifying the identity of a customer, an MSO needs not establish accuracy of every 
piece of identification information collected in paragraphs [4.3.2], [4.3.6] and 
[4.3.11]. 
 
 
4.3.14 
 
 
An MSO should ensure that documents, data or information obtained for the purpose 
of verifying the identity of a customer as required in paragraphs [4.3.3], [4.3.7] and 
[4.3.12] is current at the time they are provided to or obtained by the MSO.   
 
 
4.3.15 
 
 
When using documents for verification, an MSO should be aware that some types of 
documents are more easily forged than others, or can be reported as lost or stolen.  
Therefore, the MSO should consider applying anti-fraud procedures that are 
commensurate with the risk profile of the person being verified. 
 
 
4.3.16 
 
 
If a natural person customer or a person representing a legal person, a trust or other 
similar legal arrangement to establish a business relationship with an MSO is 
physically present during the CDD process, the MSO should generally have sight of 
original identification document by its staff and retain a copy of the document.  
However, there are a number of occasions where an original identification document 
cannot be produced by the customers (e.g. the original document is in electronic 
form).  In such an occasion, the MSO should take appropriate measures to ensure 
the reliability of identification documents obtained.  
 
 
4.3.17 
 
 
Where the documents, data or information being used for the purposes of 
identification are in a foreign language, appropriate steps should be taken by the 
MSO to be reasonably satisfied that the documents, data or information in fact 
provide evidence of the customer’s identity. 
 
Connected parties 
 
4.3.18 
 
 
Where a customer is a legal person, a trust or other similar legal arrangement, an 
MSO should identify all the connected parties26 of the customer by obtaining their 
names.  
 
 
4.3.19 
 
 
A connected party of a customer that is a legal person, a trust or other similar legal 
arrangement: 
 
(a) in relation to a corporation, means a director of the customer; 
(b) in relation to a partnership, means a partner of the customer; 
(c) in relation to a trust or other similar legal arrangement, means a trustee (or 
equivalent) of the customer; and 
(d) in other cases not falling within subsection (a), (b) or (c), means a natural person 
holding a senior management position or having executive authority in the 
customer.  
                                                 
26  For the avoidance of doubt, if a connected party also satisfies the definition of a customer, a beneficial 
owner of the customer or a person purporting to act on behalf of the customer, the MSO has to identify 
and verify the identity of that person with reference to relevant requirements set out in this Guideline.  
 
20
4.4  
Identification and verification of a beneficial owner 
s.2(1)(b), 
Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
4.4.1 
 
 
Beneficial owner refers to the natural person(s) who ultimately owns or controls the 
customer or on whose behalf a transaction or activity is being conducted.  An MSO 
must identify any beneficial owner in relation to a customer, and take reasonable 
measures to verify the beneficial owner’s identity so that the MSO is satisfied that it 
knows who the beneficial owner is. 
 
 
4.4.2 
When identifying a beneficial owner, an MSO should endeavour to obtain the same 
identification information as at paragraph [4.3.2] as far as possible. 
 
 
4.4.3 
 
 
The verification requirements for a customer and a beneficial owner are different 
under the AMLO.  In determining what constitutes reasonable measures to verify the 
identity of a beneficial owner of a customer, an MSO should consider and give due 
regard to the ML/TF risks posed by the customer and the business relationship.  It is 
therefore up to the MSO to consider whether it is appropriate to make use of the 
records of a beneficial owner available in the public domain27, request its customer 
to provide documents or information in relation to the beneficial owner’s identity 
obtained from a reliable and independent source, or corroborate the customer’s 
undertaking or declaration with publicly available information.  In exceptionally low 
ML/TF risk situation (e.g. charitable trust), it may be reasonable for the MSO to 
confirm the beneficial owner’s identity based on the information provided by the 
customer (including trustee(s) whose identities have been verified).  This could 
include information provided by the customer as to the beneficial owner’s identity, 
and confirmation that they are known to the customer.  
 
 
4.4.4 
 
 
If the ownership structure of a customer involves different types of legal persons or 
legal arrangements28, in determining who the beneficial owner is, an MSO should 
pay attention to who has ultimate ownership or control over the customer, or who 
constitutes the controlling mind and management of the customer.  
 
Beneficial owner in relation to a natural person 
 
4.4.5 
 
 
In respect of a customer that is a natural person, the customer is the beneficial owner, 
unless the characteristics of the transactions or other circumstances indicate 
otherwise.  Therefore, there is no requirement on an MSO to make proactive searches 
for beneficial owners of the customer in such a case, but the MSO should make 
appropriate enquiries where there are indications that the customer is not acting on 
his own behalf. 
 
Beneficial owner in relation to a legal person 
s.1, Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
4.4.6 
 
 
The AMLO defines beneficial owner in relation to a corporation as:   
 
(a) an individual who – 
                                                 
27  In some jurisdictions, corporations are required to maintain registers of their beneficial owners (e.g. 
the significant controllers register maintained in accordance with the Companies Ordinance of Hong 
Kong).  An MSO may refer to such registers to assist in identifying the beneficial owners of its 
customers.  Where a register of the beneficial owners is not made publicly available, the MSO may 
obtain the record directly from its customers. 
28  Similar to a corporation, a trust or other similar legal arrangement can also be part of an intermediate 
layer in an ownership structure, and should be dealt with in similar manner to a corporation being part 
of an intermediate layer.   
 
21
(i) owns or controls, directly or indirectly, including through a trust or bearer 
share holding, more than 25% of the issued share capital of the corporation; 
(ii) is, directly or indirectly, entitled to exercise or control the exercise of more 
than 25% of the voting rights at general meetings of the corporation; or  
(iii) exercises ultimate control over the management of the corporation; or 
(b) if the corporation is acting on behalf of another person, means the other person. 
 
s.1, Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
4.4.7 
 
 
The AMLO defines beneficial owner, in relation to a partnership as: 
 
(a) an individual who 
(i) is entitled to or controls, directly or indirectly, more than a 25% share of the 
capital or profits of the partnership; 
(ii) is, directly or indirectly, entitled to exercise or control the exercise of more 
than 25% of the voting rights in the partnership; or 
(iii) exercises ultimate control over the management of the partnership; or 
(b) if the partnership is acting on behalf of another person, means the other person. 
 
s.1, Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
4.4.8 
 
 
In relation to an unincorporated body other than a partnership, beneficial owner:  
 
(a) means an individual who ultimately owns or controls the unincorporated body; 
or  
(b) if the unincorporated body is acting on behalf of another person, means the other 
person. 
 
s.2(1)(b), 
Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
 
4.4.9 
 
 
For a customer that is a legal person, an MSO should identify any natural person 
who ultimately has a controlling ownership interest (i.e. more than 25%) in the legal 
person and any natural person exercising control of the legal person or its 
management, and take reasonable measures to verify their identities.  If there is no 
such natural person (i.e. no natural person falls within the definition of beneficial 
owners set out in paragraphs [4.4.6] to [4.4.8]), the MSO should identify the relevant 
natural persons who hold the position of senior managing official, and take 
reasonable measures to verify their identities. 
 
Beneficial owner in relation to a trust or other similar legal arrangement 
s.1, Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
4.4.10 
 
 
The AMLO defines the beneficial owner, in relation to a trust as: 
 
(a) a beneficiary or a class of beneficiaries of the trust entitled to a vested interest 
in the trust property, whether the interest is in possession or in remainder or 
reversion and whether it is defeasible or not; 
(b) the settlor of the trust; 
(c) the trustee of the trust; 
(d) a protector or enforcer of the trust; or 
(e) an individual who has ultimate control over the trust. 
 
s.2(1)(b), 
Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
 
4.4.11 
 
 
For a customer that is a trust, an MSO should identify the settlor, the trustee, the 
protector (if any), the enforcer (if any), the beneficiaries or class of beneficiaries, 
and any other natural person exercising ultimate control over the trust (including 
through a chain of control or ownership), and take reasonable measures to verify 
their identities.  For a customer that is another similar legal arrangement, an MSO 
should identify any natural person in equivalent or similar positions to a beneficial 
 
22
owner of a trust as stated above and take reasonable measures to verify the identity 
of such person.  
 
 
4.4.12 
 
For a beneficiary of a trust designated by characteristics or by class, an MSO should 
obtain sufficient information29 concerning the beneficiary to satisfy the MSO that it 
will be able to establish the identity of the beneficiary at the time of payout or when 
the beneficiary intends to exercise vested rights. 
 
Ownership and control structure 
s.2(1)(b), 
Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
 
4.4.13 
 
 
Where a customer is not a natural person, an MSO should understand its ownership 
and control structure, including identification of any intermediate layers (e.g. by 
reviewing an ownership chart of the customer). The objective is to follow the chain 
of ownerships to the beneficial owners of the customer. 
 
 
 
4.4.14 
 
 
Where a customer has a complex ownership or control structure, an MSO should 
obtain sufficient information for the MSO to satisfy itself that there is a legitimate 
reason behind the particular structure employed.  
 
Bearer shares30 
 
4.4.15 
 
 
Bearer shares refer to negotiable instruments that accord ownership in a legal person 
to the person who possesses the physical bearer share certificate, and any other 
similar instruments without traceability.  Therefore it is more difficult to establish 
the beneficial ownership of a company with bearer shares.  An MSO should adopt 
procedures to establish the identities of the beneficial owners of such shares and 
ensure that the MSO is notified whenever there is a change of beneficial owner of 
such shares.   
 
 
4.4.16 
 
 
Where bearer shares have been deposited with an authorised/registered custodian, 
an MSO should seek independent evidence of this, for example confirmation from 
the registered agent that an authorised/registered custodian holds the bearer shares, 
together with the identities of the authorised/registered custodian and the person who 
has the right to those entitlements carried by the share.  As part of the MSO’s ongoing 
periodic review, it should obtain evidence to confirm the authorised/registered 
custodian of the bearer shares. 
 
 
4.4.17 
 
 
Where the shares are not deposited with an authorised/registered custodian, an MSO 
should obtain declarations prior to account opening and annually thereafter from 
each beneficial owner of such shares.  The MSO should also require the customer to 
notify it immediately of any changes in the ownership of the shares. 
 
Nominee shareholders 
 
4.4.18 
 
 
For a customer identified to have nominee shareholders in its ownership structure, 
an MSO should obtain satisfactory evidence of the identities of the nominees, and 
the persons on whose behalf they are acting, as well as the details of arrangements 
in place, in order to determine who the beneficial owner is.  
                                                 
29  For example, an MSO may ascertain and name the scope of the class of beneficiaries (e.g. children of 
a named individual).  
30   The same controls should be applied to bearer share warrants, which refer to negotiable instruments 
that accord entitlement to ownership in a legal person who possesses the physical bearer share warrant 
certificate, and any other similar warrants or instruments without traceability. 
 
23
4.5  
Identification and verification of a person purporting to act on behalf of the customer 
 
 
 
4.5.1 
 
 
A person may be appointed to act on behalf of a customer to establish business 
relationships, or may be authorised to give instructions to an MSO to conduct various 
activities through the account or the business relationship established.  Whether the 
person is considered to be a person purporting to act on behalf of the customer 
(PPTA) should be determined based on the nature of that person’s roles and the 
activities which the person is authorised to conduct, as well as the ML/TF risks 
associated with these roles and activities.  An MSO should implement clear policies 
and procedures for determining who is considered to be a PPTA. 
 
s.2(1)(d), 
Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
 
4.5.2 
 
 
If a person is a PPTA, an MSO must: 
 
(a)   identify the person and take reasonable measures to verify the person’s identity 
on the basis of documents, data or information provided by- 
(i)  a governmental body; 
(ii)  the CCE or any other RA; 
(iii)  an authority in a place outside Hong Kong that performs functions similar 
to those of the CCE or any other RA; or 
(iv)  any other reliable and independent source that is recognised by the CCE; 
and 
(b)  verify the person’s authority to act on behalf of the customer. 
 
s.2(1)(d)(i), 
Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
 
4.5.3 
 
 
An MSO should identify and verify the identity of the PPTA in line with the 
identification and verification requirements for a customer that is a natural person or 
a legal person, where applicable. 
 
s.2(1)(d)(ii)
, Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
4.5.4 
 
 
An MSO should verify the authority of each PPTA by appropriate documentary 
evidence (e.g. board resolution or similar written authorization). 
 
4.6  
Purpose and intended nature of business relationship 
s.2(1)(c), 
Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
4.6.1 
 
 
An MSO must understand the purpose and intended nature of the business 
relationship.  In some instances, this will be self-evident, but in many cases, the MSO 
may have to obtain information in this regard. The information obtained by the MSO 
to understand the purpose and intended nature should be commensurate with the risk 
profile of the customer and the nature of the business relationship.  In addition, where 
a customer is not a natural person, an MSO should also understand the nature of the 
customer’s business. 
  
4.7  
Timing of verification 
s.3(2) & 
(3), Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
 
4.7.1 
 
 
An MSO should verify the identity of a customer and any beneficial owner of the 
customer before or during the course of establishing a business relationship or 
conducting transactions for occasional customers. However, MSOs may, 
exceptionally, verify the identity of a customer and any beneficial owner of the 
customer after establishing the business relationship, provided that: 
 
(a) any risk of ML/TF arising from the delayed verification of the customer’s or 
beneficial owner’s identity can be effectively managed; 
(b) it is necessary not to interrupt the normal conduct of business with the customer; 
and 
(c) verification is completed as soon as reasonably practicable.  
 
24
 
4.7.2 
 
 
Examples of situations where it may be necessary not to interrupt the normal conduct 
of business include: 
 
(a) securities transactions – in the securities industry, companies and intermediaries 
may be required to perform transactions very rapidly, according to the market 
conditions at the time the customer is contacting them, and the performance of 
the transaction may be required before verification of identity is completed; and 
(b) life insurance business – in relation to identification and verification of the 
beneficiary under the policy.  This may take place after the business relationship 
with the policy holder is established, but in all such cases, identification and 
verification should occur at or before the time of payout or the time when the 
beneficiary intends to exercise vested rights under the policy. 
 
 
4.7.3 
 
 
If an MSO allows verification of the identity of a customer and any beneficial owner 
of the customer after establishing the business relationship, it should adopt 
appropriate risk management policies and procedures concerning the conditions 
under which the customer may utilise the business relationship prior to verification.  
These policies and procedures should include: 
 
(a) establishing a reasonable timeframe for the completion of the identity 
verification measures and the follow-up actions if exceeding the timeframe (e.g. 
to suspend or terminate the business relationship concerned); 
(b) placing appropriate limits on the number, types and/or amount of transactions 
that can be performed;  
(c) monitoring of large and complex transactions being carried out outside the 
expected norms for that type of relationship; 
(d) keeping senior management periodically informed of any pending completion 
cases; and 
(e) ensuring that funds are not paid out to any third party.  Exceptions may be made 
to allow payments to third parties subject to the following conditions: 
(i) there is no suspicion of ML/TF; 
(ii) the risk of ML/TF is assessed to be low; 
(iii) the transaction is approved by senior management, who should take account 
of the nature of the business of the customer before approving the 
transaction; and 
(iv) the names of recipients do not match with watch lists such as those for 
terrorist suspects and politically exposed persons (PEPs). 
 
s.3(4)(b), 
Sch. 2, 
AMLO, 
s.25A, 
DTROP & 
OSCO, 
s.12, 
UNATMO 
 
4.7.4 
 
 
If verification cannot be completed within the reasonable timeframe set in the MSO’s 
risk management policies and procedures, the MSO should terminate the business 
relationship as soon as reasonably practicable and refrain from carrying out further 
transactions (except to return funds or other assets in their original forms as far as 
possible).  The MSO should also assess whether this failure provides grounds for 
knowledge or suspicion of ML/TF and consider making a suspicious transaction 
report (STR) to the JFIU, particularly if the customer requests that funds or other 
assets be transferred to a third party or be “transformed” (e.g. from cash into a cashier 
order) without a justifiable reason.   
 
 
 
 
25
4.8  
Simplified due diligence (SDD) 
General 
 
4.8.1 
 
 
In general, an MSO should carry out all four CDD measures set out in paragraph 
[4.1.3] before establishing any business relationship, before carrying out a specified 
occasional transaction, and continuously monitor its business relationship (i.e. 
ongoing CDD and transaction monitoring).  As stated in Chapter 2, the extent of four 
CDD measures and ongoing monitoring should be determined using an RBA.  
 
 
4.8.2 
 
 
An MSO may apply SDD measures in relation to a business relationship or 
transaction if it determines that, taking into account its risk assessment, the business 
relationship or transaction presents a low ML/TF risk. 
 
 
4.8.3 
 
SDD measures should not be applied or continue to be applied, where:  
 
(a) the MSO’s risk assessment changes and it no longer considers that there is a low 
degree of ML/TF risk;  
(b) where the MSO suspects ML or TF; or  
(c) where there are doubts about the veracity or accuracy of documents or 
information previously obtained for the purposes of identification or 
verification.  
 
 
4.8.4 
 
 
The assessment of low risks should be supported by an adequate analysis of ML/TF 
risks by the MSO. 
 
 
4.8.5 
 
 
The SDD measures applied should be commensurate with the nature and level of 
ML/TF risk, based on the lower ML/TF risk factors identified by the MSO. 
 
s.5(1), Sch. 
2, AMLO 
 
4.8.6 
 
 
When an MSO applies SDD measures, it is still required to continuously monitor its 
business relationship (i.e. ongoing CDD and transaction monitoring) in accordance 
with section 5 of Schedule 2 and Chapter 5. 
 
 
4.8.7 
 
 
Examples of potentially lower risk factors31 include: 
 
(a) customer risk factors: 
(i) a government entity or a public body32 in Hong Kong or in an equivalent 
jurisdiction; 
(ii) a corporation listed on a stock exchange and subject to disclosure 
requirements (e.g. either by stock exchange rules, or through law or 
enforceable means), which impose requirements to ensure adequate 
transparency of beneficial ownership;  
(iii) an FI as defined in the AMLO, or other FI incorporated or established in an 
equivalent jurisdiction and is subject to and supervised for compliance with 
                                                 
31  In assessing ML/TF risk of a business relationship, an MSO should consider a range of factors in a 
holistic approach. 
32  Public body, as defined in Schedule 2, includes: (a) any executive, legislative, municipal or urban 
council; (b) any Government department or undertaking; (c) any local or public authority or 
undertaking; (d) any board, commission, committee or other body, whether paid or unpaid, appointed 
by the Chief Executive or the Government; and (e) any board, commission, committee or other body 
that has power to act in a public capacity under or for the purposes of any enactment. 
 
 
26
AML/CFT requirements consistent with standards set by the FATF; or 
(iv) a collective investment scheme authorised for offering to the public in Hong 
Kong or in an equivalent jurisdiction. 
 
(b) product, service, transaction or delivery channel risk factors: 
(i) a provident, pension, retirement or superannuation scheme (however 
described) that provides retirement benefits to employees, where 
contributions to the scheme are made by way of deduction from income 
from employment and the scheme rules do not permit the assignment of a 
member’s interest under the scheme;  
(ii) an insurance policy for the purposes of a provident, pension, retirement or 
superannuation scheme (however described) that does not contain a 
surrender clause and cannot be used as a collateral; or 
(iii) a life insurance policy in respect of which: 
(A) an annual premium of no more than $8,000 or an equivalent amount in 
any other currency is payable; or 
(B) a single premium of no more than $20,000 or an equivalent amount in 
any other currency is payable. 
 
(c) country risk factors: 
(i) countries or jurisdictions identified by credible sources, such as mutual 
evaluation or detailed assessment reports, as having effective AML/CFT 
Systems; or 
(ii) countries or jurisdictions identified by credible sources as having a lower 
level of corruption or other criminal activity. 
 
 
4.8.8 
 
 
Examples of possible SDD measures include: 
 
(a) accepting other documents, data or information (e.g. proof of FI’s license, listed 
status or authorization status etc.), other than examples provided in paragraphs 
[4.3.7] and [4.3.12], for a customer falling within any category specified in 
paragraph [4.8.7(a)]; 
(b) adopting simplified customer due diligence in relation to beneficial owners as 
specified in paragraphs [4.8.9] to [4.8.20]; 
(c) reducing the frequency of updates of customer identification information;  
(d) reducing the degree of ongoing monitoring and scrutiny of transactions based 
on a reasonable monetary threshold; or 
(e) not collecting specific information or carrying out specific measures to 
understand the purpose and intended nature of the business relationship, but 
inferring the purpose and intended nature from the type of transactions or 
business relationship established.  
 
Simplified customer due diligence in relation to beneficial owners 
General 
s.4, Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
4.8.9 
 
 
An MSO may choose not to identify or take reasonable measures to verify the 
beneficial owner in relation to: 
 
(a) a customer that is listed in paragraph [4.8.10];  
(b) a transaction conducted to a customer relates to a product listed in paragraph 
[4.8.17]; or 
 
27
(c) a customer who is a solicitor or a firm of solicitor, and meeting the criteria set 
out in paragraph [4.8.19].  
 
Specific customers 
s.4(3), Sch. 
2, AMLO 
4.8.10 
 
An MSO may choose not to identify or take reasonable measures to verify the 
beneficial owner of a customer, if the customer is –  
 
(a) an FI as defined in the AMLO; 
(b) an institution that- 
(i) is incorporated or established in an equivalent jurisdiction; 
(ii) carries on a business similar to that carried on by an FI as defined in the 
AMLO; 
(iii) has measures in place to ensure compliance with requirements similar to 
those imposed under Schedule 2; and 
(iv) is supervised for compliance with those requirements by an authority in 
that jurisdiction that performs functions similar to those of any of the RAs; 
(c) a corporation listed on any stock exchange; 
(d) an investment vehicle where the person responsible for carrying out measures 
that are similar to the CDD measures in relation to all the investors of the 
investment vehicle is- 
(i) an FI as defined in the AMLO; 
(ii) an institution incorporated or established in Hong Kong, or in an equivalent 
jurisdiction that- 
(A) has measures in place to ensure compliance with requirements similar 
to those imposed under Schedule 2; and 
(B) is supervised for compliance with those requirements. 
(e) the Government or any public body in Hong Kong; or 
(f) the government of an equivalent jurisdiction or a body in an equivalent 
jurisdiction that performs functions similar to those of a public body. 
 
s.4(2), Sch. 
2, AMLO 
 
4.8.11 
 
If a customer not falling within paragraph [4.8.10] has in its ownership chain an 
entity that falls within that paragraph, the MSO is not required to identify or verify 
the beneficial owners of that entity in that chain when establishing a business 
relationship with or carrying out an occasional transaction for the customer.  
However, the MSO s should still identify and take reasonable measures to verify the 
identity of beneficial owners in the ownership chain that are not connected with that 
entity.  
 
s.4(3)(c), 
Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
 
4.8.12 
 
Where a customer is a corporation listed on any stock exchange, an MSO may 
choose not to identify or take reasonable measures to verify its beneficial owners.  
For this purpose, the MSO should assess whether the customer is subject to any 
disclosure requirements (either by stock exchange rules, or through law or 
enforceable means), which impose requirements to ensure adequate transparency of 
beneficial ownership of the customer.   
 
s.4(3)(a) & 
(b), Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
 
4.8.13 
 
An MSO may choose not to identify or take reasonable measures to verify the 
beneficial owner of a customer, if a customer is an FI as defined in the AMLO that 
opens an account: 
 
 
28
(a) in the name of a nominee company for holding fund units on behalf of the FI or 
its underlying customers; or  
(b) in the name of an investment vehicle in the capacity of a service provider (such 
as manager or custodian) to the investment vehicle and the underlying investors 
have no control over the management of the investment vehicle’s assets;  
 
provided that the FI:  
 
(a) has conducted CDD: 
(i) in the case where the nominee company holds fund units on behalf of the 
FI or the FI’s underlying customers, on its underlying customers; or  
(ii) in the case where the FI acts in the capacity of a service provider (such as 
manager or custodian) to the investment vehicle, on the investment vehicle 
pursuant to the provisions of the AMLO; and  
(b) is authorised to operate the account as evidenced by contractual document or 
agreement. 
 
s.4(3)(d), 
Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
 
4.8.14 
 
Where a customer is an investment vehicle33, an MSO may choose not to identify or 
take reasonable measures to verify its beneficial owners (i.e. the investors), provided 
that the MSO is able to ascertain that the person responsible for carrying out 
measures that are similar to the CDD measures in relation to all the investors of the 
investment vehicle falls within any of the categories of institutions set out in section 
4(3)(d) of Schedule 2. 
 
 
4.8.15 
 
 
An investment vehicle whether or not responsible for carrying out CDD measures 
on the underlying investors under governing law of the jurisdiction in which the 
investment vehicle is established may, where permitted by law, appoint another 
institution (“appointed institution”), such as a manager, a trustee, an administrator, 
a transfer agent, a registrar or a custodian, to perform the CDD.  Where the person 
responsible for carrying out the CDD measures (the investment vehicle34 or the 
appointed institution) falls within any of the categories of institution set out in 
section 4(3)(d) of Schedule 2, an MSO may choose not to identify or take reasonable 
measures to verify the beneficial owners of the investment vehicle provided that it 
is satisfied that the investment vehicle has ensured that there are reliable systems and 
controls in place to conduct the CDD (including identification and verification of the 
identity) on the underlying investors in accordance with the requirements similar to 
those set out in the Schedule 2.  
 
 
4.8.16 
 
If neither the investment vehicle nor appointed institution fall within any of the 
categories of institution set out in section 4(3)(d) of Schedule 2, an MSO should 
identify any investor owning or controlling more than 25% interest of the investment 
vehicle.  The MSO may consider whether it is appropriate to rely on a written 
representation from the investment vehicle or appointed institution (as the case may 
be) responsible for carrying out the CDD stating, to its actual knowledge, the 
                                                 
33  An investment vehicle may be in the form of a legal person or trust, and may be a collective investment 
scheme or other investment entity. 
34  If the governing law or enforceable regulatory requirements require the investment vehicle to 
implement CDD measures, the investment vehicle could be regarded as the responsible party for 
carrying out the CDD measures for the purpose of section 4(3)(d) of Schedule 2 where the investment 
vehicle meets the requirements, as permitted by law, by delegating or outsourcing to an appointed 
institution. 
 
29
identities of such investors or (where applicable) there is no such investor in the 
investment vehicle.  This will depend on risk factors such as whether the investment 
vehicle is being operated for a small, specific group of persons.  Where the MSO 
accepts such a representation, this should be documented, retained, and subject to 
periodic review.  For the avoidance of doubt, the MSO is still required to take 
reasonable measures to verify those investors owning or controlling more than 25% 
interest of the investment vehicle and (where applicable) other beneficial owners in 
accordance with paragraph [4.4]. 
 
Specific products 
s.4(4) & 
(5), Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
4.8.17 
 
An MSO may choose not to identify or take reasonable measures to verify the 
beneficial owners in relation to a customer if the MSO has reasonable grounds to 
believe that the transaction conducted by the customer relates to any one of the 
following products: 
 
(a) a provident, pension, retirement or superannuation scheme (however 
described) that provides retirement benefits to employees, where contributions 
to the scheme are made by way of deduction from income from employment 
and the scheme rules do not permit the assignment of a member’s interest under 
the scheme;  
 
(b) an insurance policy for the purposes of a provident, pension, retirement or 
superannuation scheme (however described) that does not contain a surrender 
clause and cannot be used as a collateral; or 
 
(c)  a life insurance policy in respect of which: 
(i) an annual premium of no more than $8,000 or an equivalent amount in any 
other currency is payable; or 
(ii) a single premium of no more than $20,000 or an equivalent amount in any 
other currency is payable. 
 
 
4.8.18 
 
 
For the purpose of item (a) of paragraph [4.8.17], an MSO may generally treat the 
employer as the customer and may choose not to identify or take reasonable 
measures to verify the beneficial owners of the scheme (i.e. the employees).  Where 
the MSO have a separate business relationship with the employees, it should apply 
CDD measures in accordance with relevant requirements set out in this Chapter. 
 
Solicitors’ client accounts 
s.4(6), Sch. 
2, AMLO 
4.8.19 
 
 
If a customer of an MSO is a solicitor or a firm of solicitors, the MSO may choose 
not to identify or take reasonable measures to verify the beneficial owners of the 
client account opened by the customer, provided that the following criteria are 
satisfied: 
 
(a) the client account is kept in the name of the customer; 
(b) moneys or securities of the customer’s clients in the client account are mingled; 
and 
(c) the client account is managed by the customer as those clients’ agent. 
 
 
30
 
4.8.20 
 
When opening a client account for a solicitor or a firm of solicitors, an MSO should 
establish the proposed use of the account, i.e. whether to hold co-mingled client 
funds or the funds of a specific client.  If a client account is opened on behalf of a 
single client or there are sub-accounts for each individual client where funds are not 
co-mingled at the MSO, the MSO should establish the identity of the underlying 
client(s) in addition to that of the solicitor opening the account.   
 
4.9  
Enhanced due diligence (EDD) 
General 
s.10&15, 
Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
 
4.9.1 
 
 
An MSO must apply EDD measures in relation to a business relationship or 
transaction to mitigate and manage the high ML/TF risks in: 
 
(a) a situation that by its nature may present a high ML/TF risk taking into account 
the potentially higher risk factors set out in paragraph [4.9.5]; or  
(b) a situation specified by the CCE in a notice in writing given to the MSO. 
 
s.10&15, 
Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
 
4.9.2 
 
 
The EDD measures applied should be commensurate with the nature and level of 
ML/TF risks, based on the higher ML/TF risk factors identified by the MSO.  The 
extent of EDD measures should be proportionate, appropriate and discriminating, 
and be able to be justified to the CCE.  Where the applicable EDD measures cannot 
fully mitigate the ML/TF risks identified, the MSO should take other measures to 
mitigate the residual risks (e.g. placing transaction limits or restricting account 
functionalities). 
 
s.15, Sch. 
2, AMLO 
 
4.9.3 
 
 
An MSO should obtain approval from its senior management to establish a business 
relationship that presents a high ML/TF risk, or continue an existing business 
relationship where the relationship is subsequently assessed to present a high ML/TF 
risk.  
 
s.5(3)(c), 
Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
 
4.9.4 
 
 
An MSO should conduct enhanced ongoing monitoring of a business relationship 
that presents a high ML/TF risk, for example, by increasing the number and timing 
of controls applied, and selecting patterns of transactions that need further 
examination.  Reference should be made to Chapter 5.  
 
 
 
4.9.5 
 
 
Examples of potentially higher risk factors35 include: 
 
(a) customer risk factor: 
(i) 
business relationship is conducted in unusual circumstances (e.g. 
significant unexplained geographic difference between the MSO and the 
customer, defined groups of individuals conducting transactions at single 
or multiple locations or across multiple services); 
(ii) 
legal persons or legal arrangements that involve a shell vehicle without a 
clear and legitimate commercial purpose; 
(iii) companies that have nominee shareholders, nominee directors, bearer 
shares or bearer share warrants; 
(iv) customer owns or operates cash intensive business;  
(v) 
the ownership structure of the legal person or legal arrangement appears 
                                                 
35  In assessing ML/TF risk of a business relationship, an MSO should consider a range of factors in a 
holistic approach. 
 
31
unusual or excessively complex given the nature of the legal person’s or 
legal arrangement’s business; 
(vi) customer knows little or is reluctant to disclose details about the recipient/ 
originator; or 
(vii) the customer or the beneficial owner of the customer is a politically 
exposed person. 
 
(b) product, service, transaction or delivery channel risk factors: 
(i) 
anonymous transactions (which may involve cash);  
(ii) 
structured transaction in an apparent attempt to break up amounts to stay 
below any applicable threshold for CDD or the special requirements for 
remittance transactions as stated in Chapter 11, which has an effect of 
avoiding CDD and/or record keeping; 
(iii) transfers to the same person from different individuals or to different 
persons from the same individual with no reasonable explanation;  
(iv) frequent payments received from unknown or un-associated third parties; 
(v) 
customer involves in transactions that have no apparent ties to the 
destination/origination jurisdiction and with no reasonable explanations;  
(vi) transaction volume of agents or counterparts of MSO is inconsistent with 
either overall or relative to typical past transaction volume; or 
(vii) agents that operate sub-standard compliance programmes. 
 
(c) country risk factors: 
(i) countries or jurisdictions identified by credible sources, such as mutual 
evaluation or detailed assessment reports, as not having effective 
AML/CFT Systems;  
(ii) countries or jurisdictions identified by credible sources as having a 
significant level of corruption or other criminal activity;  
(iii) countries or jurisdictions subject to sanctions, embargoes or similar 
measures issued by, for example, the United Nations; or  
(iv) countries, jurisdictions or geographical areas identified by credible sources 
as providing funding or support for terrorist activities, or that have 
designated terrorist organisations operation. 
 
 
 
4.9.6 
 
 
Examples of possible EDD measures36 include: 
 
(a) obtaining additional information on the customer (e.g. occupation, volume of 
assets, information available through public databases, internet, etc.), and using 
the information to inform the customer risk profiling as well as updating more 
regularly the identification data of customer and beneficial owner; 
(b) obtaining additional information on the intended nature of the business 
relationship; 
(c) obtaining information on the source of funds and source of wealth of the 
customer (see paragraphs [4.9.24] and [4.9.25]); 
(d) obtaining information on the reasons for intended or performed transactions;  
(e) evaluating the information provided by the customer with regard to destination 
of funds involved in the transaction and the reason for the transaction to better 
                                                 
36  For the avoidance of doubt, there is no expectation for an MSO to conduct all the examples of possible 
EDD measures for each business relationship that presents a high ML/TF risk.  MSOs are reminded 
of the requirements set out in paragraph [4.9.2].  
 
32
assess the risk of ML/TF; or 
(f) requiring the first payment to be carried out through an account in the 
customer’s name with a bank subject to similar CDD standards. 
 
Politically exposed persons (PEPs) 
Non-Hong Kong PEPs 
Definition 
s.1, Sch. 2, 
AMLO  
 
4.9.7 
 
A  non-Hong Kong PEP is defined as: 
 
(a) an individual who is or has been entrusted with a prominent public function in 
a place outside Hong Kong and  
(i) includes a head of state, head of government, senior politician, senior 
government, judicial or military official, senior executive of a state-owned 
corporation and an important political party official; 
(ii) but does not include a middle-ranking or more junior official of any of the 
categories mentioned in subparagraph (i); 
(b) a spouse, a partner, a child or a parent of an individual falling within paragraph 
(a) above, or a spouse or a partner of a child of such an individual; or 
(c) a close associate of an individual falling within paragraph (a) (see paragraph 
[4.9.8]). 
 
s.1, Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
 
4.9.8 
 
A close associate is defined as: 
 
(a) an individual who has close business relations with a person falling under 
paragraph [4.9.7(a)] above, including an individual who is a beneficial owner 
of a legal person or trust of which the person falling under paragraph [4.9.7(a)] 
is also a beneficial owner; or 
(b) an individual who is the beneficial owner of a legal person or trust that is set up 
for the benefit of a person falling under paragraph [4.9.7(a)] above. 
 
Identification of and EDD measures for non-Hong Kong PEPs 
s.19(1), 
Sch. 2 , 
AMLO 
4.9.9 
 
An MSO must establish and maintain effective procedures (e.g. by making reference 
to publicly available information and/or screening against commercially available 
databases) for determining whether a customer or a beneficial owner of a customer 
is a non-Hong Kong PEP.   
 
s.5(3)(b) & 
s.10(1)&(2)
, Sch. 2, 
AMLO  
4.9.10 
 
When an MSO know that a customer or a beneficial owner of a customer is a non-
Hong Kong PEP, it should, before (i) establishing a business relationship or (ii) 
continuing an existing business relationship where the customer or the beneficial 
owner is subsequently found to be a non-Hong Kong PEP, apply all the following 
EDD measures: 
 
(a) obtaining approval from its senior management for establishing or continuing 
such business relationship;  
(b) taking reasonable measures to establish the customer’s or the beneficial owner’s 
source of wealth and the source of the funds; and  
(c) conducting enhanced ongoing monitoring of that business relationship (see 
Chapter 5).  
 
Treatment of former non-Hong Kong PEPs 
 
33
s.1, Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
4.9.11 
A former non-Hong Kong PEP is defined as: 
 
(a) an individual who, being a non-Hong Kong PEP, has been but is not currently 
entrusted with a prominent public function in a place outside Hong Kong; 
(b) a spouse, a partner, a child or a parent of an individual falling within paragraph 
(a) above, or a spouse or a partner of a child of such an individual; or 
(c) a close associate of an individual falling within paragraph (a) (see paragraph 
[4.9.8]). 
 
s.5(5) & 
s.10(3), Sch. 
2, AMLO 
4.9.12 
Following an RBA37, an MSO may decide not to apply or continue to apply the EDD 
measures set out in paragraph [4.9.10] to a customer who is or whose beneficial 
owner is a former non-Hong Kong PEP.  Such decision can only be made with the 
approval of the MSO’s senior management and on the basis that the PEP no longer 
presents a high risk of ML/TF.  To determine whether a former non-Hong Kong PEP 
no longer presents a high risk of ML/TF, the MSO should conduct an appropriate 
assessment38 on the ML/TF risk associated with the PEP status taking into account 
various risk factors, including but not limited to: 
 
(a) the level of (informal) influence that the individual could still exercise;  
(b) the seniority of the position that the individual held as the PEP; and 
(c) whether the individual’s previous and current function are linked in any way 
(e.g. formally by appointment of the PEP’s successor, or informally by the fact 
that the PEP continues to deal with the same substantive matters). 
 
Hong Kong PEPs & international organisation PEPs 
Definition 
 
 
4.9.13 
 
A Hong Kong PEP is defined as: 
  
(a) an individual who is or has been entrusted with a prominent public function in 
Hong Kong and  
(i) includes head of government, senior politician, senior government or 
judicial official, senior executive of a government-owned corporation and 
an important political party official; 
(ii) but does not include a middle-ranking or more junior official of any of the 
categories mentioned in subparagraph (i); 
(b) a spouse, a partner, a child or a parent of an individual falling within paragraph 
(a) above, or a spouse or a partner of a child of such an individual; or 
(c) a close associate of an individual falling within paragraph (a) (see paragraph 
[4.9.8]). 
 
 
4.9.14 
 
 
An international organisation PEP is defined as: 
 
(a) an individual who is or has been entrusted with a prominent function by an 
                                                 
37  The handling of a former non-Hong Kong PEP should be based on an assessment of risk and not 
merely on prescribed time limits. 
38  For the avoidance of doubt, if an MSO does not apply EDD measures to a former non-Hong Kong 
PEP but without conducting an appropriate risk assessment, the MSO will be considered by the CCE 
as contravening section 10(1) or 10(2) of Schedule 2, where appropriate.  Hence, records of the 
relevant risk assessment should be retained by the MSO as proof of compliance with section 10(3) of 
Schedule 2. 
 
34
international organisation, and  
(i) includes members of senior management, i.e. directors, deputy directors 
and members of the board or equivalent functions;  
(ii) but does not include a middle-ranking or more junior official of the 
international organisation; 
(b) a spouse, a partner, a child or a parent of an individual falling within paragraph 
(a) above, or a spouse or a partner of a child of such an individual; or 
(c) a close associate of an individual falling within paragraph (a) (see paragraph 
[4.9.8]). 
 
 
4.9.15 
 
 
International organisations referred to in paragraph [4.9.14] are entities established 
by formal political agreements between their member States that have the status of 
international treaties; their existence is recognised by law in their member countries; 
and they are not treated as resident institutional units of the countries in which they 
are located.  Examples of international organisations include the United Nations and 
affiliated international organisations such as the International Maritime 
Organization; regional international organisations such as the Council of Europe, 
institutions of the European Union, the Organization for Security and Co-operation 
in Europe and the Organization of American States; military international 
organisations such as the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, and economic 
organisations such as the World Trade Organization or the Association of Southeast 
Asian Nations, etc.  
 
Identification of and EDD measures for Hong Kong PEPs & international organisation PEPs 
 
 
4.9.16 
 
An MSO should take reasonable measures to determine whether a customer or a 
beneficial owner of a customer is a Hong Kong PEP or an international organisation 
PEP.   
 
s.15, Sch. 
2, AMLO 
 
4.9.17 
 
An MSO should apply the EDD measures set out in paragraph [4.9.10] in any of the 
following situations 39: 
 
(a) before establishing a high risk business relationship40 with a customer who is 
or whose beneficial owner is a Hong Kong PEP or an international organisation 
PEP; 
(b) when continuing an existing business relationship with a customer who is or 
whose beneficial owner is a Hong Kong PEP or an international organisation 
PEP where the relationship subsequently becomes high risk; or 
(c) when continuing an existing high risk business relationship where the MSO 
subsequently knows that the customer or the beneficial owner of the customer 
is a Hong Kong PEP or an international organisation PEP. 
 
 
 
                                                 
39  For the avoidance of doubt, an MSO should consider whether the application of EDD measures in 
paragraph [4.9.10] could mitigate the ML/TF risk arising from the high risk business relationship with 
a Hong Kong PEP or an international organisation PEP.  Where applicable, an MSO should also apply 
EDD measures to mitigate such risk in accordance with the guidance provided in paragraphs [4.9.1] 
to [4.9.6]. 
40    In determining whether a business relationship presents a high ML/TF risk, an MSO should take into 
account all risk factors (including those in paragraph [4.9.5]) that are relevant to the business 
relationship. 
 
35
Treatment of former Hong Kong or international organisation PEPs 
 
4.9.18 
 
 
Following an RBA41, if a Hong Kong PEP or an international organisation PEP is 
no longer entrusted with a prominent (public) function, an MSO may  decide not to 
apply or continue to apply the EDD measures set out in paragraph [4.9.10] in a high 
risk business relationship with a customer who is or whose beneficial owner is a 
former Hong Kong or international organisation PEP.  Such decision can only be 
made with the approval of the MSO’s senior management and on the basis that the 
PEP no longer presents a high risk of ML/TF.  To determine whether a former Hong 
Kong or international organisation PEP no longer presents a high risk of ML/TF, the 
MSO should conduct an appropriate assessment42 on the ML/TF risk associated with 
the PEP status taking into account various risk factors, including but not limited to:  
 
(a) the level of (informal) influence that the individual could still exercise;  
(b) the seniority of the position that the individual held as the PEP; and 
(c) whether the individual’s previous and current function are linked in any way 
(e.g. formally by appointment of the PEP’s successor, or informally by the fact 
that the PEP continues to deal with the same substantive matters). 
 
Further guidance applied to all types of PEPs 
Scope of PEPs 
 
4.9.19 
 
 
An MSO should implement appropriate risk management systems to identify PEPs.  
Under-classification of PEPs poses a higher ML risk to the MSO whilst over-
classification of PEPs leads to an unnecessary compliance burden to the MSO and 
its customers.   
 
 
4.9.20 
 
 
The definitions of PEPs set out above provide some non-exhaustive examples of the 
types of prominent (public) functions that an individual may be or may have been 
entrusted with government or by an international organisation.  An MSO should 
provide sufficient guidance and examples to its staff to enable them to identify all 
types of PEPs.  In determining what constitutes a prominent (public) function, the 
MSO should consider on a case-by-case basis taking into account various factors, 
for example: the powers and responsibilities associated with particular public 
function; the organisational framework of the relevant government or international 
organisation; and any other specific concerns connected to the jurisdiction where the 
public function is/has been entrusted. 
 
 
4.9.21 
 
 
While an MSO may refer to commercially available databases to identify PEPs, the 
use of these databases should never replace traditional CDD processes (e.g. 
understanding the occupation and employer of a customer).  When using 
commercially available databases, the MSO should be aware of their limitations, for 
example, the databases are not necessarily comprehensive or reliable as they 
generally draw solely from information that is publicly available; the definition of 
PEPs used by the database providers may or may not align with the definition of 
                                                 
41  The handling of a former Hong Kong or international organisation PEP should be based on an 
assessment of risk and not merely on prescribed time limits. 
42  For the avoidance of doubt, if an MSO does not apply EDD measures to a former Hong Kong or 
international organisation PEP but without conducting an appropriate risk assessment, the MSO will 
be considered by the CCE as contravening section 15(a) or 15(b) of Schedule 2, where appropriate.  
Hence, records of the relevant risk assessment should be retained by the MSO as proof of compliance 
with section 15(a) or 15(b) of Schedule 2. 
 
36
PEPs applied by the MSO; and any technical incapability of such database that may 
hinder the MSO’s effectiveness of PEP identification.  Therefore, the MSO should 
only use such databases as a support tool and ensure they are fit for purpose.  
 
 
4.9.22 
 
 
Although the EDD requirements also apply to family members and close associates 
of the PEP, the risks associated with them may vary depending to some extent on 
the social-economic and cultural structure of the jurisdiction of the PEP.   
 
EDD measures for PEPs 
 
4.9.23 
 
 
Since not all PEPs pose the same level of ML risks, an MSO should adopt an RBA 
in determining the extent of EDD measures in paragraph [4.9.10] taking into account 
relevant factors, such as:  
 
(a) the nature of the prominent (public) functions that a PEP holds; 
(b) the geographical risk associated with the jurisdiction where a PEP holds 
prominent (public) functions; 
(c) the nature of the business relationship (e.g. the delivery/distribution channel 
used; or the product or service offered); and 
(d) if the PEP is a former PEP, the risk factors specified in paragraphs [4.9.12] and 
[4.9.18]. 
 
 
4.9.24 
 
 
Source of wealth refers to the origin of an individual’s entire body of wealth (i.e. 
total assets).  This information will usually give an indication as to the size of wealth 
the customer would be expected to have, and a picture of how the individual acquired 
such wealth.  Although an MSO may not have specific information about assets not 
deposited with or processed by it, it may be possible to gather general information 
from the individual, commercial databases or other open sources.  
 
 
4.9.25 
 
 
Source of funds refers to the origin of the particular funds or other assets which are 
the subject of the business relationship between an individual and the MSO (e.g. the 
amounts being invested, deposited, or wired as part of the business relationship).  
Source of funds information should not simply be limited to knowing from which 
the funds may have been transferred, but also the activity that generates the funds.  
The information obtained should be substantive and establish a provenance or reason 
for the funds having been acquired. 
 
 
4.9.26 
 
 
It is for an MSO to decide which measures it deems appropriate, in accordance with 
its assessment of the risks, to establish the source of funds and source of wealth.  In 
practical terms, this will often amount to obtaining information from the PEP and 
verifying it against publicly available information sources such as asset and income 
declarations, which some jurisdictions expect certain senior public officials to file 
and which often include information about an official’s source of wealth and current 
business interests.  The MSO should however note that not all declarations are 
publicly available and that a PEP customer may have legitimate reasons for not 
providing a copy.  The MSO should also be aware that some jurisdictions impose 
restrictions on their PEP’s ability to hold foreign bank accounts or to hold other 
office or paid employment. 
 
 
 
 
37
4.10  Customer not physically present for identification purposes 
s.9(1), Sch. 
2, AMLO 
4.10.1 
 
 
The AMLO permits MSOs to establish business relationships through various 
channels, both face-to-face (e.g. branch) and non-face-to-face (e.g. internet).  
However, an MSO should take additional measures to mitigate the risk (e.g. 
impersonation risk) associated with customers not physically present for 
identification purposes.  Except for the situation specified in paragraph [4.10.2], if a 
customer has not been physically present for identification purposes, the MSO must 
carry out at least one of the following additional measures to mitigate the risks posed:  
 
(a) further verifying the customer’s identity on the basis of documents, data or 
information referred to in section 2(1)(a) of Schedule 2 but not previously used 
for the purposes of verification of the customer’s identity under that section;  
(b) taking supplementary measures to verify information relating to the customer 
that has been obtained by the MSO; or 
(c) ensuring that the payment or, if there is more than one payment, the first 
payment made in relation to the customer’s account is carried out through an 
account opened in the customer’s name with an authorized institution or; an 
institution that: 
(i) is incorporated or established in an equivalent jurisdiction; 
(ii) carries on a business similar to that carried on by an authorized institution; 
(iii) has measures in place to ensure compliance with requirements similar to 
those imposed under Schedule 2; and  
(iv) is supervised for compliance with those requirements by authorities in that 
jurisdiction that perform functions similar to those of the HKMA. 
 
s.9(2), Sch. 
2, AMLO 
4.10.2 
If an MSO has verified the identity of the customer on the basis of data or 
information provided by a digital identification system that is a reliable and 
independent source recognised by the CCE, the MSO is not required to carry out any 
additional measures set out in paragraph [4.10.1]. 
 
 
4.10.3 
 
 
The extent of additional measures set out in paragraph [4.10.1] will depend on the 
nature and characteristics of the product or service requested and the assessed 
ML/TF risks presented by the customer.  
 
 
4.10.4 
 
 
Paragraph [4.10.1 (b)] allows an MSO to utilise different methods to mitigate the 
risk.  These may include measures such as (a) use of an independent and appropriate 
person to certify identification documents43; (b) checking relevant data against 
reliable databases or registries; or (c) using appropriate technology etc.  Whether a 
particular measure or a combination of measures is acceptable should be assessed on 
a case by case basis.  The MSO should ensure and be able to demonstrate to the CCE 
that the supplementary measure(s) taken can adequately guard against impersonation 
risk. 
 
 
4.10.5 
 
 
While the requirements to undertake additional measures generally apply to a 
customer that is a natural person, an MSO should also mitigate any increased risk 
(e.g. applying additional due diligence measures set out in paragraph [4.10.1]) if a 
customer that is not a natural person establishes a business relationship with an MSO 
through a non-face-to-face channel.  The increased risk may arise from 
                                                 
43  For details of suitable certifiers and the certification procedure, please refer to Appendix A. 
 
38
circumstances where the natural person acting on behalf of the customer to establish 
the business relationship is not physically present for identification purposes.  In 
addition, where an MSO is provided with copies of documents for identifying and 
verifying a legal person customer’s identity, an MSO should also mitigate any 
increased risk (e.g. applying additional due diligence measures set out in paragraph 
[4.10.1]). 
 
4.11  Reliance on CDD performed by intermediaries 
General 
s.18, Sch. 
2, AMLO 
4.11.1 
 
An MSO may rely upon an intermediary to perform any part of the CDD measures44 
specified in section 2 of Schedule 2, subject to the criteria set out in section 18 of 
Schedule 2.  However, the ultimate responsibility for ensuring that CDD 
requirements are met remains with the MSO.  
 
In a third-party reliance scenario, the third party will usually have an existing 
business relationship with the customer, which is independent from the relationship 
to be formed by the customer with the relying MSO, and would apply its own 
procedures to perform the CDD measures. 
 
 
4.11.2 
 
For the avoidance of doubt, reliance on intermediaries does not apply to outsourcing 
or agency relationships, in which the outsourced entity or agent applies the CDD 
measures on behalf of the MSO, in accordance with the MSO’s procedures, and 
subject to the MSO’s control of effective implementation of these procedures by the 
outsourced entity or agent. 
 
s.18(1) Sch. 
2, AMLO 
4.11.3 
 
When relying on an intermediary, an MSO must: 
 
(a) obtain written confirmation from the intermediary that the intermediary agrees 
to act as the MSO’s intermediary and perform which part of the CDD measures 
specified in section 2 of Schedule 2; and 
(b) be satisfied that the intermediary will on request provide a copy of any 
document, or a record of any data or information, obtained by the intermediary 
in the course of carrying out the CDD measures without delay.   
 
s.18(4)(a), 
Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
4.11.4 
 
An MSO that carries out a CDD measure by means of an intermediary must 
immediately after the intermediary has carried out that measure, obtain from the 
intermediary the data or information that the intermediary has obtained in the course 
of carrying out that measure, but nothing in this paragraph requires the MSO to 
obtain at the same time from the intermediary a copy of the document, or a record 
of the data or information, that is obtained by the intermediary in the course of 
carrying out that measure.  
 
s.18(4)(b), 
Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
4.11.5 
 
Where these documents and records are kept by the intermediary, an MSO should 
obtain an undertaking from the intermediary to keep all underlying CDD information 
throughout the continuance of the MSO’s business relationship with the customer 
and for at least five years beginning on the date on which the business relationship 
of a customer with the MSO ends or until such time as may be specified by the CCE.  
                                                 
44  For the avoidance of doubt, an MSO cannot rely on an intermediary to continuously monitor its 
business relationship with a customer for the purpose of complying with the requirements in section 5 
of Schedule 2. 
 
39
The MSO must ensure that the intermediary will, if requested by the MSO within 
the period specified in the record-keeping requirements of the AMLO, provide to the 
MSO a copy of any document, or a record of any data or information, obtained by 
the intermediary in the course of carrying out that measure as soon as reasonably 
practicable after receiving the request. The MSO should also obtain an undertaking 
from the intermediary to supply copies of all underlying CDD information in 
circumstances where the intermediary is about to cease trading or does not act as an 
intermediary for the MSO anymore. 
  
 
4.11.6 
 
An MSO should conduct sample tests from time to time to ensure CDD information 
and documentation is produced by the intermediary upon demand and without undue 
delay.  
 
 
4.11.7 
 
Whenever an MSO has doubts as to the reliability of the intermediary, it should take 
reasonable steps to review the intermediary’s ability to perform its CDD duties.  If 
the MSO intends to terminate its relationship with the intermediary, it should 
immediately obtain all CDD information from the intermediary.  If the MSO has any 
doubts regarding the CDD measures carried out by the intermediary previously, the 
MSO should perform the required CDD as soon as reasonably practicable.  
 
Domestic intermediaries 
s.18(3)(a), 
(3)(b) & 
(7), Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
4.11.8 
 
An MSO may rely upon any one of the following domestic intermediaries, to 
perform any part of the CDD measures set out in section 2 of Schedule 2: 
 
(a) an FI that is an authorized institution, a licensed corporation, an authorized 
insurer, a licensed individual insurance agent, licensed insurance agency or 
licensed insurance broker company (intermediary FI); 
(b) an accounting professional meaning: 
(i) 
a certified public accountant, as defined by section 2(1) of the 
Professional Accountants Ordinance (Cap. 50), or a certified public 
accountant (practising) as defined by section 2(1) of the Accounting and 
Financial Reporting Council Ordinance (Cap. 588); 
(ii) 
a corporate practice as defined by section 2(1) of the Accounting and 
Financial Reporting Council Ordinance (Cap. 588); or 
(iii) a certified public accountant firm as defined by section 2(1) of the 
Accounting and Financial Reporting Council Ordinance (Cap. 588); 
(c) an estate agent meaning: 
(i) 
a licensed estate agent as defined by section 2(1) of the Estate Agents 
Ordinance (Cap. 511); or 
(ii) 
a licensed salesperson as defined by section 2(1) of the Estate Agents 
Ordinance (Cap. 511); 
(d) a legal professional meaning: 
(i) 
a solicitor as defined by section 2(1) of the Legal Practitioners Ordinance 
(Cap. 159); or 
(ii) 
a foreign lawyer as defined by section 2(1) of the Legal Practitioners 
Ordinance (Cap. 159); or 
(e) a trust or company service provider (TCSP) licensee meaning: 
(i) 
a person who holds a licence granted under section 53G or renewed under 
section 53K of the AMLO; or 
(ii) 
a deemed licensee as defined by section 53ZQ(5) of the AMLO, 
 
 
40
provided that in the case of an accounting professional, an estate agent, a legal 
professional or a TCSP licensee, the MSO is satisfied that the domestic intermediary 
has adequate procedures in place to prevent ML/TF and is required to comply with 
the relevant requirements set out in Schedule 2 with respect to the customer45. 
 
s.18(3)(a) 
& (3)(b), 
Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
 
 
 
4.11.9 
 
An MSO should take appropriate measures to ascertain if the domestic intermediary 
satisfies the criteria set out in paragraph [4.11.8], which may include: 
 
(a) where the domestic intermediary is an accounting professional, an estate agent, 
a legal professional or a TCSP licensee, ascertaining whether the domestic 
intermediary is required to comply with the relevant requirements set out in 
Schedule 2 with respect to the customer; 
(b) making enquiries concerning the domestic intermediary’s stature or the extent 
to which any group AML/CFT standards are applied and audited; or 
(c) reviewing the AML/CFT policies and procedures of the domestic intermediary. 
 
Overseas intermediaries 
s18(3)(c), 
Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
4.11.10 
 
An MSO may rely upon an overseas intermediary 46 carrying on business or 
practising in an equivalent jurisdiction47 to perform any part of the CDD measures 
set out in section 2 of Schedule 2, 
where the intermediary: 
 
(a) falls into one of the following categories of businesses or professions: 
(i) 
an institution that carries on a business similar to that carried on by an 
intermediary FI;  
(ii) a lawyer or a notary public; 
(iii) an auditor, a professional accountant, or a tax advisor; 
(iv) a TCSP; 
(v) 
a trust company carrying on trust business; and 
(vi) a person who carries on a business similar to that carried on by an estate 
agent; 
(b) is required under the law of the jurisdiction concerned to be registered or 
licensed or is regulated under the law of that jurisdiction; 
(c) has measures in place to ensure compliance with requirements similar to those 
imposed under Schedule 2; and 
(d) is supervised for compliance with those requirements by an authority in that 
jurisdiction that performs functions similar to those of any of the RAs or the 
regulatory bodies (as may be applicable).  
 
 
4.11.11 
 
An MSO should take appropriate measures to ascertain if the overseas intermediary 
satisfies the criteria set out in paragraph [4.11.10].  Appropriate measures that should 
be taken to ascertain if the criterion set out in paragraph [4.11.10(c)] is satisfied may 
include: 
 
                                                 
45  CDD requirements set out in Schedule 2 apply to an accounting professional, an estate agent, a legal 
professional or a TCSP licensee with respect to a customer only when it, by way of business, prepares 
for or carries out for the customer a transaction specified under section 5A of the AMLO. 
46  The overseas intermediary and the MSO could be unrelated or within the same group of companies to 
which the MSO belongs. 
47  Guidance on jurisdictional equivalence is provided in paragraph [4.16]. 
 
41
(a) making enquiries concerning the overseas intermediary’s stature or the extent to 
which any group’s AML/CFT standards are applied and audited; or 
(b) reviewing the AML/CFT policies and procedures of the overseas intermediary. 
 
Related foreign financial institutions as intermediaries 
s.18(3)(d), 
(3A) & (7), 
Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
4.11.12 
 
An MSO may also rely upon a related foreign financial institution (related foreign 
FI) to perform any part of the CDD measures set out in section 2 of Schedule 2, if 
the related foreign FI:  
 
(a) carries on, in a place outside Hong Kong, a business similar to that carried on 
by an intermediary FI; and falls within any of the following descriptions: 
(i) it is within the same group of companies as the MSO;  
(ii) if the MSO is incorporated in Hong Kong, it is a branch of the MSO; 
(iii) if the MSO is incorporated outside Hong Kong: 
(A) it is the head office of the MSO; or 
(B) it is a branch of the head office of the MSO; 
(b) is required under group policy: 
(i) to have measures in place to ensure compliance with requirements similar 
to the requirements imposed under Schedule 2; and 
(ii) to implement programmes against ML/TF; and 
(c) is supervised for compliance with the requirements mentioned in paragraph (b) 
at a group level: 
(i) by an RA; or 
(ii) by an authority in an equivalent jurisdiction that performs, in relation to the 
holding company or the head office of the MSO, functions similar to those 
of an RA under the AMLO. 
 
s.18(3A) & 
(4)(c), 
Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
4.11.13 
 
The group policy set out in paragraph [4.11.12 (b)] refers to a policy of the group of 
companies to which the MSO belongs and the policy applies to the MSO and the 
related foreign FI.  The group policy should include CDD and record keeping 
requirements similar to the requirements imposed under Schedule 2 and the group-
wide AML/CFT System48 (e.g. compliance and audit functions).  The group policy 
should also be able to mitigate adequately any higher country risk in relation to the 
jurisdiction where the related foreign FI is located.  The MSO should be satisfied 
that the related foreign FI is subject to regular and independent reviews over its 
ongoing compliance with the group policy conducted by any group-level 
compliance, audit or other similar AML/CFT functions. 
s.18(3A), 
Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
4.11.14 
 
The MSO should be able to demonstrate that the implementation of the group policy 
is supervised at a group level by either an RA or an authority in an equivalent 
jurisdiction that performs functions similar to those of an RA under the AMLO, 
which practises group-wide supervision which extends to the related foreign FI. 
 
4.12  Pre-existing customers 
s.6, Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
4.12.1 
 
An MSO must perform the CDD measures prescribed in Schedule 2 and this 
Guideline in respect of pre-existing customers (with whom the business relationship 
was established before the AMLO came into effect on 1 April 2012), when: 
  
(a) a transaction takes place with regard to the customer, which is, by virtue of the 
                                                 
48  Reference should be made to Chapter 3.  
 
42
amount or nature of the transaction, unusual or suspicious; or is not consistent 
with the MSO’s knowledge of the customer or the customer’s business or risk 
profile, or with its knowledge of the source of the customer’s funds; 
(b) a material change occurs in the way in which the customer’s account is 
operated; 
(c) the MSO suspects that the customer or the customer’s account is involved in 
ML/TF; or 
(d) the MSO doubts the veracity or adequacy of any information previously 
obtained for the purpose of identifying the customer or for the purpose of 
verifying the customer’s identity. 
 
 
4.12.2 
 
Trigger events may include the re-activation of a dormant account or a change in the 
beneficial ownership or control of the account but the MSO will need to consider 
other trigger events specific to their own customers and business. 
 
s.5, Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
4.12.3 
 
An MSO should note that requirements for ongoing monitoring under section 5 of 
Schedule 2 also apply to pre-existing customers (see Chapter 5). 
 
4.13  Failure to satisfactorily complete customer due diligence 
s.3(1) & 
(4), Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
 
4.13.1 
 
Where the MSO is unable to comply with relevant CDD requirements set out in this 
Chapter and the ongoing due diligence requirements set out in Chapter 5, it must not 
establish a business relationship or carry out any occasional transaction with that 
customer, or must terminate business relationship as soon as reasonably practicable 
(where applicable), and where there is relevant knowledge or suspicion, should make 
an STR to the JFIU. 
 
4.14  Prohibition on anonymous accounts 
s.16, Sch. 
2, AMLO 
4.14.1 
 
An MSO must not open, or maintain any anonymous account or account in a 
fictitious name for any customer.  Confidential numbered accounts49 should not 
function as anonymous accounts, rather they should be subject to exactly the same 
CDD and control measures50 as all other business relationships.  While a numbered 
account can offer additional confidentiality for the customer, the identity of the latter 
must be verified by the MSO and known to a sufficient number of staff to facilitate 
effective CDD and ongoing monitoring.  In all cases, whether the relationship 
involves numbered accounts or not, the customer’s CDD record must be available to 
the CCE, other competent authorities, the CO, auditors, and other staff with 
appropriate authority. 
 
4.15  Jurisdictions subject to a call by the FATF 
s.15, Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
 
4.15.1 
 
 
An MSO should apply EDD measures, proportionate to the risks, to business 
relationships and transactions with natural and legal persons (including FIs) from 
jurisdictions for which this is called for by the FATF in accordance with the guidance 
provided in paragraph [4.9]. 
 
                                                 
49  In respect of a numbered account, the name of the customer (and/or the beneficial owner) is known to 
the MSO but is substituted by an account number or code name in subsequent documentation. 
50  For example, wire transfers, and remittance service, from numbered accounts must reflect the real 
name of the account holder. 
 
43
s.15, Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
 
4.15.2 
 
Where mandatory EDD or countermeasures51 are called for by the FATF, or in other 
circumstances independent of any call by the FATF but also considered to be higher 
risk,  the CCE may also, through a notice in writing: 
 
(a) impose a general obligation on MSOs to comply with the requirements set out 
in section 15 of Schedule 2; or 
(b) require MSOs to undertake specific countermeasures described in the notice.  
 
The type of measures in paragraphs (a) and (b) would be proportionate to the nature 
of the risks and/or deficiencies. 
 
4.16 Jurisdictional equivalence 
General 
s.4(3)(b)(i), 
s.4(3)(d) 
(iii), 
s.4(3)(f), 
s.9(1)(c)(ii)
, s.18(3)(c), 
Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
4.16.1 
 
Jurisdictional equivalence and the determination of equivalence is an important 
aspect in the application of CDD measures under the AMLO.  Equivalent jurisdiction 
is defined in the AMLO as meaning: 
 
(a) a jurisdiction that is a member of the FATF, other than Hong Kong; or 
(b) a jurisdiction that imposes requirements similar to those imposed under 
Schedule 2.  
 
Determination of jurisdictional equivalence 
 
4.16.2 
 
An MSO may therefore be required to evaluate and determine for itself which 
jurisdictions other than FATF members apply requirements similar to those imposed 
under Schedule 2 for jurisdictional equivalence purposes.  The MSO should 
document its assessment of the jurisdiction, and may include consideration of the 
following factors: 
 
(a) whether the jurisdiction concerned is a member of FATF-style regional bodies 
and recent mutual evaluation report published by the FATF-style regional 
bodies;  
(b) whether the jurisdiction concerned is identified by the FATF as having strategic 
AML/CFT deficiencies and the recent progress of improving its AML/CFT 
regime;  
(c) any advisory circular issued by the CCE from time to time alerting MSOs to 
jurisdictions with poor AML/CFT controls;   
(d) any other AML/CFT-related publications published by specialised national, 
international, non-governmental or commercial organisations.  
 
 
4.16.3 
 
 
As the AML/CFT regime of a jurisdiction will change over time, an MSO should 
review the jurisdictional equivalence assessment on a regular basis and/or upon 
trigger events. 
 
                                                 
51  For jurisdictions with serious deficiencies in applying the FATF Recommendations and where 
inadequate progress has been made to improve their positions, the FATF may recommend the 
application of countermeasures. 
 
44
Chapter 5 - ONGOING MONITORING 
 
General 
s.5(1), Sch. 
2, AMLO 
5.1 
 
Ongoing monitoring is an essential component of effective AML/CFT Systems.  An 
MSO must continuously monitor its business relationship with a customer in two 
aspects: 
 
(a) ongoing CDD: reviewing from time to time documents, data and information 
relating to the customer that have been obtained by the MSO for the purpose of 
complying with the requirements imposed under Part 2 of Schedule 2 to ensure 
that they are up-to-date and relevant; and 
(b) transaction monitoring:  
(i) conducting appropriate scrutiny of transactions carried out for the customer 
to ensure that they are consistent with the MSO’s knowledge of the 
customer, the customer’s business, risk profile and source of funds; and 
(ii) identifying transactions that (A) are complex, unusually large in amount or 
of an unusual pattern, and (B) have no apparent economic or lawful 
purpose; and examining the background and purposes of those transactions 
and setting out the findings in writing. 
 
Ongoing CDD 
s.5(1)(a), 
Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
 
5.2 
 
 
To ensure documents, data and information of a customer obtained are up-to-date 
and relevant52, an MSO should undertake reviews of existing CDD records of 
customers on a regular basis and/or upon trigger events53.  Clear policies and 
procedures should be developed, especially on the frequency of periodic review or 
what constitutes a trigger event. 
 
s.5(1)(a), 
Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
 
5.3 
 
All customers that present high ML/TF risks should be subject to a minimum of an 
annual review, or more frequent reviews if deemed necessary by the MSO, to ensure 
the CDD information retained remains up-to-date and relevant. 
 
Transaction monitoring 
Transaction monitoring systems and processes 
s.19(3), 
Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
 
 
5.4 
 
An MSO should establish and maintain adequate systems and processes to monitor 
transactions.  The design, degree of automation and sophistication of transaction 
monitoring systems and processes should be developed appropriately having regard 
to the following factors: 
 
(a) the size and complexity of its business; 
(b) the ML/TF risks arising from its business; 
(c) the nature of its systems and controls; 
(d) the monitoring procedures that already exist to satisfy other business needs; and 
(e) the nature of the products and services provided (which includes the means of 
delivery or communication). 
                                                 
52  Keeping the CDD information up-to-date and relevant does not mean that an MSO has to re-verify 
identities that have been verified (unless doubts arise as to the veracity or adequacy of the information 
previously obtained for the purposes of customer identification and verification). 
53  While it is not necessary to regularly review the existing CDD records of a dormant customer, an MSO 
should conduct a review upon reactivation of the relationship.  The MSO should define clearly what 
constitutes a dormant customer in its policies and procedures.  
 
45
 
5.5 
 
 
An MSO should ensure that the transaction monitoring systems and processes can 
provide all relevant staff who are tasked with conducting transaction monitoring and 
investigation with timely and sufficient information required to identify, analyse and 
effectively monitor customers’ transactions. 
 
 
5.6 
 
 
An MSO should ensure that the transaction monitoring systems and processes can 
support the ongoing monitoring of a business relationship in a holistic approach, 
which may include monitoring activities of a customer’s multiple accounts within or 
across lines of businesses, and related customers’ accounts within or across lines of 
businesses. This means preferably the MSO adopts a relationship-based approach 
rather than on a transaction-by-transaction basis. 
 
 
5.7 
 
In designing transaction monitoring systems and processes, including setting of 
parameters and thresholds, an MSO should take into account the transaction 
characteristics, which may include: 
 
(a) the nature and type of transactions (e.g. abnormal size or frequency); 
(b) the nature of a series of transactions (e.g. structuring a single transaction into a 
number of cash deposits); 
(c) the counterparties of transactions; 
(d) the geographical origin/destination of a payment or receipt; and 
(e) the customer’s normal account activity or turnover. 
 
 
 
5.8 
 
 
An MSO should regularly review the adequacy and effectiveness of its transaction 
monitoring systems and processes, including parameters and thresholds adopted.  
The parameters and thresholds should be properly documented and independently 
validated to ensure that they are appropriate to its operations and context. 
 
Risk-based approach to transaction monitoring and review of transactions 
s.5(3), (4) 
& (5), Sch. 
2, AMLO 
 
5.9 
 
An MSO should conduct transaction monitoring in relation to all business 
relationships following the RBA.  The extent of monitoring (e.g. frequency and 
intensity of monitoring) should be commensurate with the ML/TF risk profile of a 
customer.  Where the ML/TF risks are high54, the MSO should conduct enhanced 
transaction monitoring.  In low risk situations, the MSO may reduce the extent of 
monitoring. 
 
s.5(1)(b) & 
(c), Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
 
5.10 
 
 
An MSO should take appropriate steps (e.g. examining the background and purposes 
of the transactions; making appropriate enquiries to or obtaining additional CDD 
information from a customer) to identify if there are any grounds for suspicion, 
when:  
 
(a) the customer’s transactions are not consistent with the MSO’s knowledge of the 
customer, the customer’s business, risk profile or source of funds; or  
(b) the MSO identifies transactions that (i) are complex, unusually large in amount 
or of an unusual pattern, and (ii) have no apparent economic or lawful purpose55.  
                                                 
54  Examples of high ML/TF risk situations that require enhancing transaction monitoring include: (a) a 
customer or a beneficial owner of a customer being a non-Hong Kong PEP; and (b) a business 
relationship presenting a high risk of ML/TF under section 15 of Schedule 2.  
55  An MSO should examine the background and purposes of the transactions and set out its findings in 
writing. 
 
46
 
5.11 
 
Where an MSO conducts enquiries and obtains what it considers to be a satisfactory 
explanation of the transaction or activity, it may conclude that there are no grounds 
for suspicion, and therefore take no further action.  Even if no suspicion is identified, 
the MSO should consider updating the customer risk profile based on any relevant 
information obtained. 
 
 
5.12 
 
However, where the MSO cannot obtain a satisfactory explanation of the transaction 
or activity, it may conclude that there are grounds for suspicion.  In any event where 
there is any suspicion identified during transaction monitoring, an STR should be 
made to the JFIU. 
 
 
5.13 
 
An MSO should be aware that making enquiries to customers, when conducted 
properly and in good faith, will not constitute tipping off.  However, if the MSO 
reasonably believes that performing the CDD process will tip off the customer, it 
may stop pursuing the process.  The MSO should document the basis for its 
assessment and file an STR to the JFIU.  
 
s.5(1)(a), 
Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
 
5.14 
 
The findings and outcomes of steps taken by the MSO in paragraph [5.10], as well 
as the rationale of any decision made after taking these steps, should be properly 
documented in writing and be available to the CCE, other competent authorities and 
auditors.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
47
Chapter 6 –  TERRORIST FINANCING, FINANCIAL SANCTIONS AND PROLIFERATION 
FINANCING 
  
Terrorist financing 
 
6.1 
 
TF is the financing of terrorist acts, and of terrorists and terrorist organisations.  It 
generally refers to the carrying out of transactions involving property owned by 
terrorists or terrorist organisations, or that has been, or is intended to be, used to 
assist the commission of terrorist acts.  Different from ML, the focus of which is on 
the handling of criminal proceeds (i.e. the source of property is what matters), the 
focus of TF is on the destination or use of property, which may have derived from 
legitimate sources. 
 
UNSCR 
1267 (1999), 
1373 (2001), 
1988 (2011), 
1989 (2011), 
2253 (2015) 
and 2368 
(2017) 
 
6.2 
 
The United Nations Security Council (UNSC) has passed UNSCR 1373 (2001), 
which calls on all member states to act to prevent and suppress the financing of 
terrorist acts.  The UN has also published the names of individuals and organisations 
in relation to involvement with Al-Qa’ida, ISIL (Da’esh) and the Taliban under 
relevant UNSCRs (e.g. UNSCR 1267 (1999), 1988 (2011), 1989 (2011), 2253 
(2015), 2368 (2017) and their successor resolutions).  All UN member states are 
required to freeze any funds, or other financial assets, or economic resources of any 
person(s) named in these lists and to report any suspected name matches to the 
relevant authorities.   
 
 
6.3 
 
 UNATMO is an ordinance to further implement a decision under UNSCR 1373 
(2001) relating to measures for prevention of terrorist acts and a decision under 
UNSCR 2178 (2014) relating to the prevention of travel for the purpose of terrorist 
acts or terrorist training; as well as to implement certain terrorism-related 
multilateral conventions and certain FATF Recommendations.     
 
s.4 & 5, 
UNATMO 
 
6.4 
 
Where a person or property is designated by a Committee of the UNSC established 
pursuant to the relevant UNSCRs as stated in paragraph [6.2] as a terrorist/terrorist 
associate or terrorist property56 respectively, the Chief Executive may publish a 
notice in the Gazette specifying the name of the person or the property under section 
4 of the UNATMO.  Besides, section 5 of the UNATMO provides that the Chief 
Executive may make an application to the Court of First Instance for an order to 
specify a person or property as a terrorist/terrorist associate or terrorist property 
respectively, and if the order is made, it will also be published in the Gazette. 
 
s.6, 7, 8, 
8A & 11L, 
UNATMO 
 
6.5 
 
A number of provisions in the UNATMO are of particular relevance to MSOs , and 
are listed below: 
 
(a) section 6 empowers the Secretary for Security (S for S) to freeze suspected 
terrorist property; 
(b) section 7 prohibits the provision or collection of property for use to commit 
terrorist acts;  
(c) section 8 prohibits any person from making available or collecting or soliciting 
property or financial (or related) services for terrorists and terrorist associates;  
(d) section 8A prohibits any person from dealing with any property knowing that, 
                                                 
56  According to section 2 of the UNATMO, terrorist property means the property of a terrorist or terrorist 
associate, or any other property that is intended to be used or was used to finance or assist the 
commission of terrorist acts. 
 
48
or being reckless as to whether, the property is specified terrorist property or 
property of a specified terrorist or terrorist associate; and  
(e) section 11L prohibits any person from providing or collecting any property to 
finance the travel of a person between states with the intention or knowing that 
the travel will be for a specified purpose, i.e. the perpetration, planning or 
preparation of, or participation in, one or more terrorist acts (even if no terrorist 
act actually occurs); or the provision or receiving of training that is in connection 
with the perpetration, planning or preparation of, or participation in, one or more 
terrorist acts (even if no terrorist act actually occurs as a result of the training).  
 
s.6(1),8 
&8(A)1,  
UNATMO 
6.6 
 
The S for S can licence exceptions to the prohibitions to enable frozen property to 
be unfrozen and to allow payments to be made to or for the benefit of a designated 
party under the UNATMO (e.g. reasonable living/legal expenses and payments 
liable to be made under the Employment Ordinance).  An MSO seeking such a 
licence should write to the Security Bureau.  
  
Financial sanctions & proliferation financing 
 
6.7 
 
The UNSO empowers the Chief Executive to make regulations to implement 
sanctions decided by the UNSC, including targeted financial sanctions57 against 
certain persons and entities, such as those designated by the UNSC or its 
Committees. Designated persons and entities are specified by notice published in the 
Gazette or on the website of the Commerce and Economic Development Bureau. 
Except under the authority of a licence granted by the Chief Executive, it is an 
offence: 
(a) to make available, directly or indirectly, any funds, or other financial assets, or 
economic resources, to, or for the benefit of, 
(i) designated persons or entities,  
(ii) persons or entities acting on the behalf of or at the direction of the 
designated persons or entities, or owned or controlled by them, or  
(iii) entities owned by the aforementioned; or 
(b) to deal with, directly or indirectly, any funds, or other financial assets or 
economic resources belonging to, or owned or controlled by, such persons or 
entities. 
 
Applicable 
UNSO 
Regulation 
6.8 
 
The Chief Executive may grant a licence for making available any funds or other 
financial assets or economic resources to; or dealing with any funds or other financial 
assets or economic resources belonging to or owned or controlled by, certain persons 
or entities under specified circumstances in accordance with the provisions of the 
relevant regulation made under the UNSO.  An MSO seeking such licence should 
write to the Commerce and Economic Development Bureau. 
 
 
6.9 
 
 
To combat PF, the UNSC adopts a two-tiered approach through resolutions made 
under Chapter VII of the UN Charter imposing mandatory obligations on UN 
member states: (a) global approach under UNSCR 1540 (2004) and its successor 
resolutions; and (b) country-specific approach under UNSCR 1718 (2006) against 
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK) and UNSCR 2231 (2015) 
against the Islamic Republic of Iran (Iran) and their successor resolutions.  
 
                                                 
57  Targeted financial sanctions refer to both asset freezing and prohibitions to prevent funds or other 
assets from being made available, directly or indirectly, for the benefit of designated persons and 
entities.  
 
49
s.4, WMD 
(CPS)O 
6.10 
 
The counter proliferation financing regime in Hong Kong is implemented through 
legislation, including the regulations made under the UNSO which are specific to 
DPRK and Iran, and the WMD(CPS)O.  Section 4 of WMD(CPS)O prohibits a 
person from providing any services where he believes or suspects, on reasonable 
grounds, that those services may be connected to PF.  The provision of services is 
widely defined and includes the lending of money or other provision of financial 
assistance. 
 
Sanctions imposed by other jurisdictions 
 
6.11 
 
While MSOs do not normally have any obligation under Hong Kong laws to have 
regard to unilateral sanctions imposed by other organisations or authorities in other 
jurisdictions, an MSO operating internationally will need to be aware of the scope 
and focus of relevant sanctions regimes in those jurisdictions.  Where these sanctions 
regimes may affect its operations, the MSO should consider what implications exist 
and take appropriate measures. 
 
Database maintenance, screening and enhanced checking 
 
6.12 
 
An MSO should establish and maintain effective policies, procedures and controls 
to ensure compliance with the relevant regulations and legislation on TF, financial 
sanctions PF.  The legal and regulatory obligations of MSOs and those of their staff 
should be well understood and adequate guidance and training should be provided 
to the latter. 
 
 
6.13 
 
It is particularly vital that an MSO should be able to identify terrorist suspects and 
possible designated parties, and detect prohibited transactions.  To this end, an MSO 
should ensure that it maintains a database of names and particulars of terrorists and 
designated parties, which consolidates the various lists that have been made known 
to the MSO.  Alternatively, an MSO may subscribe to such a database maintained 
by a third party service provider and take appropriate measures (e.g. conduct sample 
testing periodically) to ensure the completeness and accuracy of the database.  
 
 
6.14 
 
 
Whether or not a UNSCR or sanctions list has been implemented through Hong 
Kong legislation, there are offences under existing legislation relating to ML, TF and 
PF that are relevant.  Inclusion of a country, individual, entity or activity in the 
UNSCR or sanctions list may constitute grounds for knowledge or suspicion for the 
purposes of relevant ML, TF and PF laws, thereby triggering statutory (including 
reporting) obligations as well as offence provisions.  The CCE draws to the attention 
to MSOs from time to time whenever there are any updates to UNSCRs or sanctions 
lists relating to terrorism, TF and PF promulgated by the UNSC.  MSOs should 
ensure that countries, individuals and entities included in UNSCRs and sanctions 
lists are included in the database as soon as practicable after they are promulgated 
by the UNSC and regardless of whether the relevant sanctions have been 
implemented by legislation in Hong Kong.  
 
 
6.15 
 
An MSO should include in its database: (a) the lists published in the Gazette or on 
the website of the Commerce and Economic Development Bureau; and (b) the lists 
that the CCE draws to the attention of MSOs from time to time.  The database should 
also be subject to timely update whenever there are changes, and should be made 
easily accessible by relevant staff. 
 
 
50
s.8 &8(A),  
UNATMO, 
 
s.4, WMD 
(CPS)O & 
 
Applicable 
UNSO 
Regulations 
6.16 
 
To avoid establishing business relationship with or providing any financial services 
to any terrorist suspects and possible sanctioned parties, included in UNSCRs and 
sanctions lists, an MSO should implement an effective screening mechanism58, 
which should include:  
 
(a) screening its customers and any beneficial owners of the customers against 
current database at the establishment of the relationship;  
(b) screening its customers and any beneficial owners of the customers against all 
new and any updated designations to the database as soon as practicable; and  
(c) screening all relevant parties in a cross-border / cross-boundary wire transfer 
(including remittance transaction) against current database before executing the 
transfer.  
 
 
6.17 
 
 
The screening requirements set out in paragraphs [6.16(a) and (b)] should extend to 
connected parties as defined in paragraph [4.3.19] and PPTAs of a customer using 
an RBA.  
 
 
6.18 
 
When possible name matches are identified during screening, an MSO should 
conduct enhanced checks to determine whether the possible matches are genuine 
hits.  In case of any suspicions of TF, PF or sanctions violations, the MSO should 
make a report to the JFIU.  Records of enhanced checking results, together with all 
screening records, should be documented, or recorded electronically. 
 
 
6.19 
 
 
An MSO may rely on its overseas office to maintain the database or to undertake the 
screening process.  However, the MSO is reminded that the ultimate responsibility 
for ensuring compliance with the relevant regulations and legislation on TF, financial 
sanctions and PF remains with the MSO. 
 
 
 
 
                                                 
58  Screening should be carried out irrespective of the risk profile attributed to the customer.  
 
51
Chapter 7 – SUSPICIOUS TRANSACTION REPORTS AND LAW ENFORCEMENT REQUESTS 
Suspicious transaction reporting regime in Hong Kong 
General issues 
s.25A(1)& 
(7), 
DTROP & 
OSCO, 
s.12(1)& 
14(5), 
UNATMO 
 
 
7.1 
 
It is a statutory obligation under sections 25A(1) of the DTROP and the OSCO, as 
well as section 12(1) of the UNATMO, that where a person knows or suspects that 
any property: (a) in whole or in part directly or indirectly represents any person’s 
proceeds of, (b) was used in connection with, or (c) is intended to be used in 
connection with drug trafficking or an indictable offence; or that any property is 
terrorist property, the person shall as soon as it is reasonable for him to do so, file an 
STR with the JFIU.  The STR should be made together with any matter on which the 
knowledge or suspicion is based.  Under the DTROP, the OSCO and the UNATMO, 
failure to report knowledge or suspicion carries a maximum penalty of imprisonment 
for three months and a fine of $50,000. 
 
Knowledge vs. suspicion 
 
7.2 
 
Generally speaking, knowledge is likely to include: 
 
(a) actual knowledge; 
(b) knowledge of circumstances which would indicate facts to a reasonable person; 
and 
(c) knowledge of circumstances which would put a reasonable person on inquiry. 
 
 
7.3 
 
 
Suspicion is more subjective.  Suspicion is personal and falls short of proof based 
on firm evidence. As far as an MSO is concerned, when a transaction or a series of 
transactions of a customer is not consistent with the MSO’s knowledge of the 
customer, or is unusual (e.g. in a pattern that has no apparent economic or lawful 
purpose) 59 , the MSO should take appropriate steps to further examine the 
transactions and identify if there is any suspicion (see paragraphs [5.10] to [5.14]).  
 
 
7.4 
 
 
For a person to have knowledge or suspicion, he does not need to know the nature 
of the criminal activity underlying the ML, or that the funds themselves definitely 
arose from the criminal offence. Similarly, the same principle applies to TF. 
 
 
7.5 
 
 
Once knowledge or suspicion has been formed, 
 
(a) an MSO should file an STR even where no transaction has been conducted by 
or through the MSO60; and 
                                                 
59  An MSO is required to report an STR where it suspects that a transaction is associated with proceeds 
of crime or terrorist property, together with any matter on which the knowledge or suspicion is based.  
Specifically, when an MSO holds information concerning both the originator and the recipient of funds, 
the MSO should take into account all of this information in determining whether an STR has to be 
filed. 
60  The reporting obligations require a person to report suspicions of ML/TF, irrespective of the amount 
involved.  The reporting obligations of section 25A(1) DTROP and OSCO, and section 12(1) 
UNATMO apply to “any property”.  Property includes both movable and immovable property within 
the meaning of section 3 of the Interpretation and General Clauses Ordinance, Cap. 1, and as defined 
in section 3 of Cap. 1, “property” includes (a) money, goods, choses in action and land; and (b) 
obligations, easements and every description of estate, interest and profit, present or future, vested or 
contingent, arising out of or incident to property as defined in paragraph (a) of this definition”.  These 
provisions establish a reporting obligation whenever a suspicion arises, without reference to 
 
52
(b) the STR must be made as soon as reasonably practical after the suspicion was 
first identified.  
 
Tipping off 
s.25A(5), 
DTROP & 
OSCO, 
s.12(5), 
UNATMO 
7.6 
 
It is an offence (“tipping off”) to reveal to any person any information which might 
prejudice an investigation; if a customer is told that a report has been made, this 
would prejudice the investigation and an offence would be committed.  The tipping-
off provision includes circumstances where a suspicion has been raised internally 
within an MSO, but has not yet been reported to the JFIU. 
 
AML/CFT Systems in relation to suspicious transaction reporting 
 
7.7 
 
 
An MSO should implement appropriate AML/CFT Systems in order to fulfil its 
statutory reporting obligations, and properly manage and mitigate the risks 
associated with any customer or transaction involved in an STR.  The AML/CFT 
Systems should include:   
 
(a) appointment of an MLRO (see Chapter 3); 
(b) implementing clear policies and procedures over internal reporting, reporting to 
the JFIU, post-reporting risk mitigation and prevention of tipping off; and 
(c) keeping proper records of internal reports and STRs. 
 
 
7.8 
 
An MSO should have measures in place to check, on an ongoing basis, that its 
AML/CFT Systems in relation to suspicious transaction reporting comply with 
relevant legal and regulatory requirements and operate effectively.  The type and 
extent of the measures to be taken should be appropriate having regard to the risk of 
ML/TF as well as the nature and size of its business. 
 
Money laundering reporting officer 
 
7.9 
 
An MSO should appoint an MLRO as a central reference point for reporting 
suspicious transactions and also as the main point of contact with the JFIU and law 
enforcement agencies.  The MLRO should play an active role in the identification 
and reporting of suspicious transactions.  Principal functions of the MLRO should 
include having oversight of: 
 
(a) review of internal disclosures and exception reports and, in light of all available 
relevant information, determination of whether or not it is necessary to make a 
report to the JFIU; 
(b) maintenance of all records related to such internal reviews; and 
(c) provision of guidance on how to avoid tipping off. 
 
Identifying suspicious transactions, illustrative red flag indicators and internal reporting 
 
7.10 
 
An MSO should provide sufficient guidance to its staff and agents (if applicable) to 
enable them to form suspicion or to recognise the signs when ML/TF/PF is taking 
place.  The guidance should take into account the nature of the transactions and 
customer instructions that staff is likely to encounter, the type of product or service 
and the means of delivery. 
 
                                                 
transactions per se.  Thus, the obligation to report applies whether or not a transaction was actually 
conducted and also covers attempted transactions. 
 
53
The following is a list of non-exhaustive red flag indicators of suspicious 
transactions and activities that may help assess whether or not transactions and 
activities might give rise to grounds of ML/TF/PF suspicion61: 
 
 
(a) transactions which do not make economic sense: 
(i) 
transactions that cannot be reconciled with the usual activities of the 
customer; 
(ii) 
transactions which are incompatible with the MSO’s knowledge and 
experience of the customer in question or with the purpose of the relevant 
business transaction, for example, a mismatch between the economic 
activity, place of origin, or person and the remittances received; 
(iii) conceal or disguise significant transactions to avoid disclosure for record 
purpose by executing frequent or several transactions such that each 
transaction by itself is below CDD thresholds; 
(iv) “Structuring” or “Smurfing” i.e. many lower value transactions 
conducted when one, or a few, large transactions could be used; 
(v) 
“U-turn” transactions, i.e. where funds received from a person or 
company in a foreign jurisdiction are remitted to another person or 
company in the same foreign jurisdiction, or to the sender’s account in 
another jurisdiction; 
(vi) unnecessary routing of funds through various FIs or persons; 
(vii) substantial increase(s) in the number of transactions/ frequency/ amounts 
by a customer without apparent cause, especially if remittances are made 
to a destination/ person not normally associated with the customer; 
(viii) concentration of payments where multiple senders transfer funds to a 
single individual’s account; or 
(ix) there is a lack of apparent relationship between the originator and the 
recipient of funds, and/or personal remittances sent to jurisdictions that 
have no apparent family or business link to customer, and/or the customer 
has no relation to the jurisdiction where he/she sends/receives the money 
and cannot sufficiently explain why money is sent to/received from there. 
 
(b)  cash intensive transactions with abnormal patterns  
(i) 
frequent transactions of large cash amounts that do not appear to be 
justified by the customer’s business activity or background; 
(ii) 
customers making large and/or frequent remittances, mostly to 
individuals and companies not normally associated with their business; 
(iii) exchanging an unusually large amount of small-denominated notes for 
those of higher denomination in a different currency; 
(iv) numerous transactions by a customer, especially over a short period of 
time and the amount of each transaction is below the CDD threshold or 
not substantial, but the cumulative total of which is substantial or exceeds 
the threshold; 
(v) 
customers who together, and simultaneously, use separate branches to 
                                                 
61  For more red flag indicators of suspicious transactions and activities, reference can be made to relevant 
guidance issued by the FATF, inter-governmental organisations, governments and authorities from 
time to time, including “Money Laundering through Money Remittance and Currency Exchange 
Providers” and “Guidance for Financial Institutions in Detecting Terrorist Financing” issued by the 
FATF in June 2010 and April 2002 respectively as well as “Yearly ML/TF Typologies Report” issued 
by the Asia/Pacific Group on Money Laundering (APG). 
 
54
conduct large (cash) transactions; 
(vi) customers whose transactions involve counterfeit notes or forged 
instruments; or 
(vii) large and regular payments that cannot be clearly identified as genuine 
transactions, from and to countries or jurisdictions designated as “higher 
risk” for ML/TF/PF activities. 
 
(c) trade-based related transactions 
(i) 
the commodity is shipped to (or from) a country or jurisdiction designated 
as “higher risk” for ML/TF/PF activities; 
(ii) 
the type of commodity shipped is designated as “higher risk” for 
ML/TF/PF activities62; 
(iii) significant discrepancies appear between the description of the 
commodity on the bill of lading or invoice and the actual commodity 
shipped; 
(iv) significant discrepancies appear between the value of the commodity 
reported on the invoice and the commodity’s fair market value; 
(v) 
the size of the shipment/commodity appears inconsistent with the scale 
of the exporter or importer’s regular business activities; 
(vi) the method of payment appears inconsistent with the risk characteristics 
of the transaction63; 
(vii) the transaction involves the receipt of cash (or other payments) from third 
party entities that have no apparent connection with the transaction; 
(viii) the transaction involves the use of repeatedly amended or frequently 
extended letters of credit; 
(ix) the transaction involves the use of front (or shell) companies; 
(x) 
the commodity is transhipped through one or more countries or 
jurisdictions for no apparent economic reason; or 
(xi) the shipment does not make economic sense. 
 
(d) other types of transactions 
(i) 
account activity or transaction volume is not commensurate with the 
customer’s known profile (e.g. age, occupation, income); 
(ii) 
transactions with jurisdictions or entities that are reported to be associated 
with terrorist activities or with persons that have been designated as 
terrorists; 
(iii) frequent changes to the address or authorised signatories. 
(iv) donation to charity or non-profit organisations (NPOs) located in conflict 
zones or jurisdictions reported to have terrorist activities / terrorist 
groups; 
(v) 
false information during the identification process or use of third parties 
to transfer funds aimed at concealing the sender and/or receiver of 
moneys; 
(vi) customers send or receive (regular) payments from jurisdictions which 
are regarded as “tax havens” or which are likely to be exposed to serious 
crimes or high risk business such as drug trafficking, TF, smuggling, 
                                                 
62  For example, high-value, low-volume goods (e.g. consumer electronics) and dual-use goods which 
have high turnover rates and present valuation difficulties. 
63  For example, the use of an advance payment for a shipment from a new supplier in a high-risk 
jurisdiction.   
 
55
gambling or adult entertainments. Amounts transacted are not necessarily 
to be large; or 
(vii) remittance/wire transfers originated from or sent to high-risk jurisdictions 
without reasonable explanation, which are not consistent with the 
customer's usual foreign business dealings;  
 
(e) agents or counterparts of MSO  
(i) 
reluctance to provide customers’ identification information; 
(ii) 
high volume of large or suspicious transactions in comparison to other 
agents or counterparts of MSO in the same area; 
(iii) large volume of transactions for the same customer with multiple 
instances of using different name spellings, false addresses or an 
identification that “evolves,” i.e., some parts of the identification change, 
while other parts remains the same, or  
(iv) transmission of funds by the same customer on the same day to several 
agents or counterparts of MSO locations to purportedly same or different 
recipients. 
 
(f) customer’s behaviour 
(i) 
the customer is accompanied by others who keep a low profile or stay just 
outside the premise; or appears to be in doubt when being asked for 
further details; 
(ii) 
the customer is in a hurry to complete the transaction, with promises to 
provide the supporting information retrospectively; 
(iii) the customer shows no interest to compare costs and/or exchange rate 
offered by MSOs; 
(iv) multiple customers appear to be trying to avoid reporting requirements 
and seem to be working together to break one transaction into two or more 
transactions below the threshold; or 
(v) 
the customer fails to reasonably justify the purpose of a transaction or 
provide a legitimate reason upon MSO’s enquiry. 
 
This list is not intended to be exhaustive and only highlight examples of the basic 
ways in which money may be laundered or used for TF/PF purposes.  While each 
individual indicator may not be sufficient to establish an ML/TF/PF activity, a 
combination of several situations may be indicative of a suspicious transaction.  The 
detection of any relevant red flag by an MSO however should prompt further 
investigations and be a catalyst towards making at least initial enquiries about the 
source of funds and requesting additional documentary support for CDD. 
 
 
7.11 
 
An MSO may adopt, where applicable, the “SAFE” approach promoted by the JFIU, 
which includes: (a) screening the account for suspicious indicators; (b) asking the 
customers appropriate questions; (c) finding out the customer’s records; and (d) 
evaluating all the above information.  Details of the “SAFE” approach are available 
at JFIU’s website (www.jfiu.gov.hk).  
 
 
7.12 
 
 An MSO should establish and maintain clear policies and procedures to ensure that: 
(a) all staff are made aware of the identity of the MLRO and of the procedures to 
follow when making an internal report; and 
(b) all internal reports must reach the MLRO without undue delay. 
 
56
 
7.13 
 
While an MSO may wish to set up internal systems that allow staff to consult with 
supervisors or managers before sending a report to the MLRO, under no 
circumstances should reports raised by staff be filtered out by supervisors or 
managers 
who 
have 
no 
responsibility 
for 
the 
money 
laundering 
reporting/compliance function.  The legal obligation is to report as soon as it is 
reasonable to do so, so reporting lines should be as short as possible with the 
minimum number of people between the staff with the suspicion and the MLRO.  
This ensures speed, confidentiality and accessibility to the MLRO. 
 
s.25A(4), 
DTROP & 
OSCO, 
s.12(4), 
UNATMO 
7.14 
 
Once a staff of an MSO has reported suspicion to the MLRO in accordance with the 
policies and procedures established by the MSO for the making of such reports, the 
statutory obligation of the staff has been fully satisfied.  
 
 
7.15 
 
The internal report should include sufficient details of the customer concerned and 
the information giving rise to the suspicion. 
 
 
7.16 
 
The MLRO should acknowledge receipt of an internal report and provide a reminder 
of the obligation regarding tipping off to the reporting staff upon internal reporting.   
 
 
7.17 
 
When evaluating an internal report, the MLRO must take reasonable steps to 
consider all relevant information, including CDD and ongoing monitoring 
information available within or to the MSO concerning the entities to which the 
report relates.  This may include: 
 
(a) making a review of other transaction patterns and volumes through connected 
accounts, preferably adopting a relationship-based approach rather than on a 
transaction-by-transaction basis; 
(b) making reference to any previous patterns of instructions, the length of the 
business relationship, and CDD and ongoing monitoring information and 
documentation; and 
(c) appropriate questioning of the customer per the systematic approach to 
identifying suspicious transactions recommended by the JFIU64. 
 
 
7.18 
 
The need to search for information concerning connected accounts or relationships 
should strike an appropriate balance between the statutory requirement to make a 
timely STR to the JFIU and any delays that might arise in searching for more relevant 
information concerning connected accounts or relationships.  The review process 
should be documented, together with any conclusions drawn. 
 
Reporting to the JFIU 
 
7.19 
 
If after completing the review of the internal report, an MLRO decides that there are 
grounds for knowledge or suspicion, he should disclose the information to the JFIU 
as soon as it is reasonable to do so after his evaluation is complete together with the 
information on which that knowledge or suspicion is based.  Dependent on when 
knowledge or suspicion arises, an STR may be made either before a suspicious 
transaction or activity occurs (whether the intended transaction ultimately takes 
place or not), or after a transaction or activity has been completed. 
 
                                                 
64  For details, please see JFIU’s website (www.jfiu.gov.hk). 
 
57
In the case of an MSO that controls both the ordering and the beneficiary sides of a 
wire transfer, the MSO should also file an STR in any jurisdiction affected by the 
suspicious wire transfer, and make relevant transaction information available to the 
Financial Intelligence Unit. 
 
 
7.20 
 
Providing an MLRO acts in good faith in deciding not to file an STR with the JFIU, 
it is unlikely that there will be any criminal liability for failing to report if the MLRO 
concludes that there is no suspicion after taking into account all available 
information.  It is however vital for the MLRO to keep proper records of the 
deliberations and actions taken to demonstrate he has acted in reasonable manner. 
 
 
7.21 
 
In the event that an urgent reporting is required (e.g. where a customer has instructed 
the MSO to move funds or other property, close the account, make cash available 
for collection, or carry out significant changes to the business relationship etc.), 
particularly when the account is part of an ongoing investigation by law enforcement 
agency, an MSO should indicate this in the STR.  Where exceptional circumstances 
exist in relation to an urgent reporting, an initial notification by telephone to the JFIU 
should be considered. 
 
 
7.22 
 
An MSO is recommended to indicate any intention to terminate a business 
relationship in its initial STR to the JFIU. 
 
 
7.23 
 
 
An MSO should ensure STRs filed to the JFIU are of high quality taking into account 
feedback and guidance provided by the JFIU in its quarterly report65and the CCE 
from time to time. 
 
Post STR reporting 
s.25A(2)(a), 
DTROP & 
OSCO, 
s.12(2B)(a), 
UNATMO  
7.24 
 
The JFIU will acknowledge receipt of an STR made by an MSO under section 25A 
of both the DTROP and the OSCO, and section 12 of the UNATMO.  If there is no 
need for imminent action, e.g. the issue of a restraint order on an account, consent 
will usually be given for the MSO to operate the account under the provisions of 
section 25A(2)(a) of both the DTROP and the OSCO, and section 12(2B)(a) of the 
UNATMO.  Otherwise, the MSO should take appropriate action and seek legal 
advice where necessary. 
 
s.25A(2), 
DTROP & 
OSCO, 
s.12(2), 
UNATMO 
7.25 
 
Filing an STR to the JFIU provides an MSO with a statutory defence to the offence 
of ML/TF in respect of the acts disclosed in the report, provided: 
 
(a) the report is made before the MSO undertakes the disclosed acts and the acts 
(transaction(s)) are undertaken with the consent of the JFIU; or  
(b) the report is made after the MSO has performed the disclosed acts 
(transaction(s)) and the report is made on the MSO’s own initiative and as soon 
as it is reasonable for the MSO to do so.  
 
                                                 
65  The purpose of the quarterly report, which is relevant to all financial sectors, is to raise AML/CFT 
awareness.  It consists of two parts, (i) analysis of STRs and (ii) matters of interest and feedback.  The 
report is available at a secure area of the JFIU’s website at www.jfiu.gov.hk.  MSOs can apply for a 
login name and password by completing the registration form available on the JFIU’s website or by 
contacting the JFIU directly. 
 
58
 
7.26 
 
However, the statutory defence stated in paragraph [7.25] does not absolve an MSO 
from the legal, reputational or regulatory risks associated with the account’s 
continued operation.  An MSO should also be aware that a “consent” response from 
the JFIU to a pre-transaction report should not be construed as a “clean bill of health” 
for the continued operation of the account or an indication that the account does not 
pose a risk to the MSO.  
 
 
7.27 
 
An MSO should conduct an appropriate review of a business relationship upon the 
filing of an STR to the JFIU, irrespective of any subsequent feedback provided by 
the JFIU, and apply appropriate risk mitigating measures.  Filing a report with the 
JFIU and continuing to operate the relationship without any further consideration of 
the risks and the imposition of appropriate controls to mitigate the risks identified is 
not acceptable.  If necessary, the issue should be escalated to the MSO’s senior 
management to determine how to handle the relationship concerned to mitigate any 
potential legal or reputational risks posed by the relationship in line with the MSO’s 
business objectives, and its capacity to mitigate the risks identified.  
 
 
7.28 
 
An MSO should be aware that the reporting of a suspicion in respect of a transaction 
or event does not remove the need to report further suspicious transactions or events 
in respect of the same customer.  Further suspicious transactions or events, whether 
of the same nature or different to the previous suspicion, must continue to be reported 
to the MLRO who should make further reports to the JFIU if appropriate. 
 
Record keeping 
 
7.29 
 
An MSO must establish and maintain a record of all ML/TF reports made to the 
MLRO.  The record should include details of the date the report was made, the staff 
members subsequently handling the report, the results of the assessment, whether 
the internal report resulted in an STR to the JFIU, and information to allow the papers 
relevant to the report to be located.   
 
 
7.30 
 
An MSO must establish and maintain a record of all STRs made to the JFIU.  The 
record should include details of the date of the STR, the person who made the STR, 
and information to allow the papers relevant to the STR to be located.  This register 
may be combined with the register of internal reports, if considered appropriate. 
 
Execution of court documents by law enforcement agencies and requests for crime-related intelligence 
 
7.31 
 
 
An MSO may be served with various court documents from law enforcement 
agencies, e.g. search warrants, production orders, restraint orders or confiscation 
orders, pursuant to relevant legislations in Hong Kong.  These court documents are 
crucial to aid law enforcement agencies to carry out investigations as well as restrain 
and confiscate illicit proceeds.  Therefore, an MSO should establish clear policies 
and procedures to handle these court documents in an effective and timely manner, 
including provision of accurate information, allocation of sufficient resources and 
appointing a staff as the main point of contact with law enforcement agencies.   
 
 
7.32 
 
An MSO must respond to any search warrant and production order within the 
required time limit by providing all the information or material that fall within the 
scope of the court document.  Where an MSO encounters difficulty in complying 
with the timeframes stipulated, the MSO should at the earliest opportunity contact 
the officer-in-charge of the investigation for further guidance. 
 
59
s.10 & 11,  
DTROP, 
s.15 & 16, 
OSCO,  
s.6, 
UNATMO  
 
7.33 
 
During a law-enforcement investigation, an MSO may be served with a restraint 
order, which prohibits the dealing with particular funds or property pending the 
outcome of an investigation.  The MSO must ensure that it is able to withhold the 
relevant property that is the subject of the order.  It should be noted that the restraint 
order may not apply to all funds or property involved within a particular business 
relationship and the MSO should consider what, if any, funds or property may be 
utilised subject to the law of Hong Kong.  
 
s.3, 
DTROP,  
s.8, OSCO, 
s.13, 
UNATMO  
7.34 
 
Upon the conviction of a defendant, a court may order the confiscation of his 
criminal proceeds and an MSO may be served with a confiscation order in the event 
that it holds funds or other property belonging to that defendant that are deemed by 
the court to represent his benefit from the crime.  A court may also order the 
forfeiture of property where it is satisfied that the property is terrorist property.  
 
 
7.35 
 
 
When an MSO is served with a court document (e.g. search warrant or production 
order) or crime-related intelligence requests from a law enforcement agency (e.g. 
notification letter) in relation to a particular customer or business relationship, the 
MSO should timely assess the risks involved and the need to conduct an appropriate 
review on the customer or the business relationship to determine whether there is 
any suspicion and should also be aware that the customer to whom the court 
document relates can be a victim of crime.   
 
 
 
60
Chapter 8 – RECORD-KEEPING 
 
General  
 
8.1 
 
Record-keeping is an essential part of the audit trail for the detection, investigation 
and confiscation of criminal or terrorist property or funds.  Record-keeping helps the 
investigating authorities to establish a financial profile of a suspect, trace the 
criminal or terrorist property or funds and assists the Court to examine all relevant 
past transactions to assess whether the property or funds are the proceeds of or relate 
to criminal or terrorist offences.  Record-keeping also enables an MSO to 
demonstrate compliance with the requirements set out in the AMLO, this Guideline 
and other relevant guidance promulgated by the CCE from time to time. 
 
 
8.2 
 
An MSO should maintain CDD information, transaction records and other records 
that are necessary and sufficient to meet the statutory and regulatory requirements 
that are appropriate to the nature, size and complexity of its businesses.  The MSO 
should ensure that: 
 
(a) the audit trail for funds moving through the MSO that relate to any customer 
and, where appropriate, the beneficial owner of the customer, account or 
transaction is clear and complete; 
(b) all CDD information and transaction records are available swiftly to the CCE, 
other authorities and auditors upon appropriate authority; and  
(c) it can demonstrate compliance with any relevant requirements specified in other 
sections of this Guideline and other guidelines issued by the CCE. 
 
Retention of records relating to CDD and transactions 
 
 
s.20(1)(b) 
(i), Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
 
 
 
 
 
 
s.2(1)(c), 
Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
 
s.20(1)(b) 
(ii), Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
8.3 
 
An MSO should keep: 
 
(a) the original or a copy of the documents, and a record of the data and information, 
obtained in the course of identifying and, where applicable, verifying the 
identity of the customer and/or beneficial owner of the customer and/or 
beneficiary and/or persons who purport to act on behalf of the customer and/or 
other connected parties to the customer;  
(b) other documents and records obtained throughout the CDD and ongoing 
monitoring process, including SDD and EDD; 
(c) where applicable, the original or a copy of the documents, and a record of the 
data and information, on the purpose and intended nature of the business 
relationship; 
(d) the original or a copy of the records and documents relating to the customer’s 
account (e.g. account opening form  or risk assessment form) and business 
correspondence66 with the customer and any beneficial owner of the customer 
(which at a minimum should include business correspondence material to CDD 
measures or significant changes to the operation of the account) ; and 
(e) the results of any analysis undertaken (e.g. inquiries to establish the background 
and purposes of transactions that are complex, unusually large in amount or of 
unusual pattern, and have no apparent economic or lawful purpose).  
                                                 
66  An MSO is are not expected to keep each and every correspondence, such as a series of emails with 
the customer; the expectation is that sufficient correspondence is kept to demonstrate compliance with 
the AMLO. 
 
61
s.20(2), (3) 
& (3A), 
Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
 
8.4 
 
All documents and records mentioned in paragraph [8.3] should be kept throughout 
the continuance of the business relationship with the customer and for a period of at 
least five years after the end of the business relationship.  Similarly, for occasional 
transaction equal to or exceeding the CDD threshold (i.e. $8,000 for wire transfers 
and virtual asset transfers involving virtual assets, and $120,000 for other types of 
transactions), an MSO should keep all documents and records mentioned in 
paragraph [8.3] for a period of at least five years after the date of the occasional 
transaction. 
 
s.20(1)(a), 
Sch. 2, 
AMLO  
 
8.5 
 
An MSO should maintain the original or a copy of the documents, and a record of 
the data and information, obtained or generated in connection with each transaction 
the MSO carries out, both domestic and international, which should be sufficient to 
permit reconstruction of individual transactions so as to provide, if necessary, 
evidence for prosecution of criminal activity. 
 
s.20(2), 
Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
8.6 
 
All documents and records mentioned in paragraph [8.5] should be kept for a period 
of at least five years after the completion of a transaction, regardless of whether the 
business relationship ends during the period.  
 
s.21,  
Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
8.7 
 
If the record consists of a document, either the original of the document should be 
retained or a copy of the document should be kept on microfilm or in the database 
of a computer.  If the record consists of data or information, such record should be 
kept either on microfilm or in the database of a computer. 
 
s.20(4), 
Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
8.8 
 
The CCE may, by notice in writing to an MSO, require it to keep the records relating 
to a specified transaction or customer for a period specified by the CCE that is longer 
than those referred to in paragraphs [8.4] and [8.6], where the records are relevant to 
an ongoing criminal or other investigation carried out by the CCE, or to any other 
purposes as specified in the notice. 
 
Part 3, Sch. 
2, AMLO 
8.9 
 
Irrespective of where CDD and transaction records are held, an MSO is required to 
comply with all legal and regulatory requirements in Hong Kong, especially Part 3 
of Schedule 2.   
 
Records kept by intermediaries 
s.18(4)(a)&
(b), Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
8.10 
 
Where customer identification and verification documents are held by an 
intermediary on which an MSO is relying to carry out CDD measures, the MSO 
concerned remains responsible for compliance with all record-keeping requirements.  
The MSO should ensure that the intermediary being relied on has systems in place 
to comply with all the record-keeping requirements under the AMLO and this 
guideline (including the requirements of paragraphs [8.3] to [8.9]), and that 
documents and records will be provided by the intermediary as soon as reasonably 
practicable after the intermediary receive the request from the MSO. 
 
s.18(4)(a), 
Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
8.11 
 
For the avoidance of doubt, an MSO that relies on an intermediary for carrying out 
a CDD measure should immediately obtain data or the information that the 
intermediary has obtained in the course of carrying out that measure. 
 
 
62
 
8.12 
 
An MSO should ensure that an intermediary will pass the documents and records to 
the MSO, upon termination of the services provided by the intermediary. 
 
 
 
 
 
63
Chapter 9 – STAFF TRAINING 
 
 
9.1 
 
Ongoing staff training is an important element of an effective system to prevent and 
detect ML/TF activities.  The effective implementation of even a well-designed 
internal control system can be compromised if staff using the system is not 
adequately trained. 
 
 
9.2 
 
It is an MSO’s responsibility to provide adequate training for its staff so that they 
are adequately trained to implement its AML/CFT Systems.  The scope and 
frequency of training should be tailored to the specific risks faced by the MSO and 
pitched according to the job functions, responsibilities and experience of the staff.  
New staff should be required to attend initial training as soon as possible after being 
hired or appointed.  Apart from the initial training, an MSO should also provide 
refresher training regularly to ensure that its staff are reminded of their 
responsibilities and are kept informed of new developments related to ML/TF. 
 
 
9.3 
 
An MSO should implement a clear and well articulated policy for ensuring that 
relevant staff receive adequate AML/CFT training. 
 
 
9.4 
 
Staff should be made aware of: 
 
(a) their MSO’s and their own personal statutory obligations and the possible 
consequences for failure to comply with CDD and record-keeping requirements 
under the AMLO; 
(b) their MSO’s and their own personal statutory obligations and the possible 
consequences for failure to report suspicious transactions under the DTROP, 
the OSCO and the UNATMO; 
(c) any other statutory and regulatory obligations that concern their MSOs and 
themselves under the DTROP, the OSCO, the UNATMO, the UNSO, the 
WMD(CPS)O and the AMLO, and the possible consequences of breaches of 
these obligations; 
(d) the MSO’s policies and procedures relating to AML/CFT, including suspicious 
transaction identification and reporting; and 
(e) any new and emerging techniques, methods and trends in ML/TF to the extent 
that such information is needed by the staff to carry out their particular roles in 
the MSO with respect to AML/CFT. 
 
 
9.5 
 
In addition, the following areas of training may be appropriate for certain groups of 
staff:   
 
(a) all new staff, irrespective of seniority:  
(i) an introduction to the background to ML/TF and the importance placed on 
ML/TF by the MSO; and  
(ii) the need for identifying and reporting of any suspicious transactions to the 
MLRO, and the offence of “tipping-off”; 
(b) members of staff who are dealing directly with the public (e.g. front-line 
personnel): 
(i) the importance of their roles in the MSO’s ML/TF strategy, as the first point 
of contact with potential money launderers;  
(ii) the MSO’s policies and procedures in relation to CDD and record-keeping 
 
64
requirements that are relevant to their job responsibilities; and   
(iii) training in circumstances that may give rise to suspicion, and relevant 
policies and procedures, including, for example, lines of reporting and 
when extra vigilance might be required; 
(c) back-office staff, depending on their roles:  
(i) appropriate training on customer verification and relevant processing 
procedures; and 
(ii) how to recognise unusual activities including abnormal settlements, 
payments or delivery instructions; 
(d) managerial staff including internal audit officers and COs:  
(i) higher level training covering all aspects of the MSO’s AML/CFT regime; 
and  
(ii) specific training in relation to their responsibilities for supervising or 
managing staff, auditing the system and performing random checks as well 
as reporting of suspicious transactions to the JFIU; and   
(e) MLROs: 
(i) specific training in relation to their responsibilities for assessing suspicious 
transaction reports submitted to them and reporting of suspicious 
transactions to the JFIU; and  
(ii) training to keep abreast of AML/CFT requirements/developments 
generally.  
 
 
9.6 
 
An MSO is encouraged to consider using a mix of training techniques and tools in 
delivering training, depending on the available resources and learning needs of their 
staff.  These techniques and tools may include on-line learning systems, focused 
classroom training, relevant videos as well as paper- or intranet-based procedures 
manuals.  An MSO may consider including available FATF papers and typologies 
as part of the training materials.  The MSO should be able to demonstrate to the CCE 
that all materials are up-to-date and in line with current requirements and standards. 
 
 
9.7 
 
No matter which training approach is adopted, an MSO should monitor and maintain 
records of who have been trained, when the staff received the training and the type 
of the training provided.  Records should be maintained for a minimum of 3 years.  
 
 
9.8 
 
An MSO should monitor the effectiveness of the training.  This may be achieved by: 
 
(a) testing staff’s understanding of the MSO’s policies and procedures to combat 
ML/TF, the understanding of their statutory and regulatory obligations, and also 
their ability to recognise suspicious transactions;  
(b) monitoring the compliance of staff with the MSO’s AML/CFT Systems as well 
as the quality and quantity of internal reports so that further training needs may 
be identified and appropriate action can be taken; and 
(c) monitoring attendance and following up with staff who miss such training 
without reasonable cause. 
 
 
65
Chapter 10 – WIRE TRANSFERS 
 
General  
s.1(4) &  
s.12(11), 
Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
10.1 
 
 
A wire transfer is a transaction carried out by an institution (the ordering institution) 
on behalf of a person (the originator) by electronic means with a view to making an 
amount of money available to that person or another person (the recipient) at an 
institution (the beneficiary institution), which may be the ordering institution67 or 
another institution, whether or not one or more other institutions (intermediary 
institutions) participate in completion of the transfer of the money.  An MSO should 
follow the relevant requirements set out in this Chapter in the jurisdictions in which 
it operates, directly or through its agents, with regard to its role in a wire transfer. 
 
 
10.2 
 
 
Where an MSO is the originator or recipient of a wire transfer, it is not acting as an 
ordering institution, an intermediary institution or a beneficiary institution and thus 
is not required to comply with the requirements under section 12 of Schedule 2 or 
this Chapter in respect of that transaction. 
 
 
10.3 
 
 
The requirements set out in section 12 of Schedule 2 and this Chapter are also 
applicable to wire transfers using cover payment mechanism (e.g. MT202COV 
payments)68. 
 
s.12(2), 
Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
10.4 
 
 
Section 12 of Schedule 2 and this Chapter do not apply to the following wire 
transfers: 
 
(a) a wire transfer between an MSO and an FI as defined in the AMLO if each of 
them acts on its own behalf; 
(b) a wire transfer between an MSO and a foreign institution69 if each of them acts 
on its own behalf;  
(c) a wire transfer if:  
(i) it arises from a transaction that is carried out using a credit card, debit card 
or prepaid card (such as withdrawing money from a bank account through 
an automated teller machine with a debit card; obtaining a cash advance on 
a credit card; or paying for goods or services with a credit card, debit card 
or prepaid card);  
(ii) the card is not used as a payment system to effect a person-to-person 
transfer; and   
(iii) the number (or equivalent unique identifier) of the credit card, debit card 
or prepaid card is included in the message or payment form accompanying 
the transfer.  
 
Ordering institutions 
                                                 
67   For example, a wire transfer conducted between branches of the same MSO. 
68  Reference should be made to the paper “Due diligence and transparency regarding cover payment 
messages related to cross-border wire transfer” published by the Basel Committee on Banking 
Supervision in May 2009 and the “Guidance Paper on Cover Payment Messages Related to Cross-
border Wire Transfers” issued by the HKMA in February 2010. 
69  For the purpose of section 12 of Schedule 2 and this Chapter, “foreign institution” means an institution 
that is located in a place outside Hong Kong and that carries on a business similar to that carried on 
by an FI as defined in the AMLO. 
 
66
s.12(3) & 
(5), Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
10.5 
 
 
An ordering institution must ensure that a wire transfer of amount equal to or above 
$8,000 (or an equivalent amount in any other currency) is accompanied by the 
following originator and recipient information: 
 
(a) the originator’s name; 
(b) the number of the originator’s account maintained with the ordering institution 
and from which the money for the wire transfer is paid or, in the absence of 
such an account, a unique reference number assigned by the ordering institution; 
(c) the originator’s address or, the originator’s customer identification number70 or 
identification document number or, if the originator is an individual, the 
originator’s date and place of birth; 
(d) the recipient’s name; and 
(e) the number of the recipient’s account maintained with the beneficiary institution 
and to which the money for the wire transfer is paid or, in the absence of such 
an account, a unique reference number assigned to the wire transfer by the 
beneficiary institution. 
 
s.12(3), 
(3A) & (5), 
Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
10.6 
 
 
An ordering institution must ensure that a wire transfer of amount below $8,000 (or 
an equivalent amount in any other currency) is accompanied by the following 
originator and recipient information : 
 
(a) the originator’s name; 
(b) the number of the originator’s account maintained with the ordering institution 
and from which the money for the wire transfer is paid or, in the absence of such 
an account, a unique reference number assigned by the ordering institution;  
(c) the recipient’s name; and 
(d) the number of the recipient’s account maintained with the beneficiary institution 
and to which the money for the wire transfer is paid or, in the absence of such 
an account, a unique reference number assigned to the wire transfer by the 
beneficiary institution.  
 
 
10.7 
 
The unique reference number assigned by the ordering institution or beneficiary 
institution referred to in paragraphs [10.5] and [10.6] should permit traceability of 
the wire transfer. 
 
 
10.8 
 
For a wire transfer of amount equal to or above $8,000 (or an equivalent amount in 
any other currency), an ordering institution must ensure that the required originator 
information accompanying the wire transfer is accurate. 
 
s.3(1)(d) & 
(1A), Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
10.9 
 
 
For an occasional wire transfer involving an amount equal to or above $8,000 (or an 
equivalent amount in any other currency), an ordering institution must verify the 
identity of the originator.  For an occasional wire transfer below $8,000 (or an 
equivalent amount in any other currency), the ordering institution is in general not 
required to verify the originator’s identity, except when several transactions are 
carried out which appear to the ordering institution to be linked and are equal to or 
                                                 
70  Customer identification number refers to a number which uniquely identifies the originator to the 
originating institution and is a different number from the unique transaction reference number referred 
to in paragraph [10.7].  The customer identification number must refer to a record held by the 
originating institution which contains at least one of the following: the customer address, the 
identification document number, or the date and place of birth.   
 
67
above $8,000 (or an equivalent amount in any other currency), or when there is a 
suspicion of ML/TF. 
 
s.12(7), Sch. 
2, AMLO 
10.10 
 
An ordering institution may bundle a number of wire transfers from a single 
originator into a batch file for transmission to a recipient or recipients in a place 
outside Hong Kong.  In such cases, the ordering institution may only include the 
originator’s account number or, in the absence of such an account, a unique reference 
number in the wire transfer but the batch file should contain required and accurate 
originator information, and required recipient information, that is fully traceable 
within the recipient country. 
 
s.12(6), 
Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
10.11 
 
For a domestic wire transfer71, an ordering institution may choose not to include the 
complete required originator information in the wire transfer but only include the 
originator’s account number or, in the absence of an account, a unique reference 
number, provided that the number permits traceability of the wire transfer. 
 
s.12(6), 
Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
10.12 
 
If an ordering institution chooses not to include complete required originator 
information as stated in paragraph [10.11], it must, on the request of the institution 
to which it passes on the transfer instruction or the CCE, provide complete required 
originator information within 3 business days after the request is received.  In 
addition, such information should be made available to law enforcement agencies 
immediately upon request. 
 
s.19(2), 
Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
10.13 
An ordering institution should establish and maintain effective procedures to ensure 
that proper safeguards exist to prevent carrying out outgoing wire transfers that do 
not comply with the relevant originator or recipient information requirements, which 
include: 
 
(a) taking reasonable measures (e.g. regular review or testing by internal control or 
audit function to assess system capabilities) to identify whether domestic or 
cross-border wire transfers lack required originator information or required 
recipient information; and 
(b) having risk-based policies and procedures for handling wire transfers lacking 
required originator information or required recipient information, and timely 
rectifying any control deficiencies identified. 
 
Intermediary institutions 
s.12(8), 
Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
10.14 
 
An intermediary institution must ensure that all originator and recipient information 
which accompanies the wire transfer is retained with the transfer and is transmitted 
to the institution to which it passes on the transfer instruction. 
 
 
10.15 
 
Where technical limitations prevent the required originator or recipient information 
accompanying a cross-border wire transfer from remaining with a related domestic 
wire transfer, the intermediary institution should keep a record, for at least five years, 
of all the information received from the ordering institution or another intermediary 
institution.  The above requirement also applies to a situation where technical 
                                                 
71  Domestic wire transfer means a wire transfer in which the ordering institution and the beneficiary 
institution and, if one or more intermediary institutions are involved in the transfer, the intermediary 
institution or all the intermediary institutions are FIs (as defined in the AMLO) located in Hong Kong.  
 
68
limitations prevent the required originator or recipient information accompanying a 
domestic wire transfer from remaining with a related cross-border wire transfer. 
 
s.19(2), 
Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
10.16 
 
An intermediary institution must establish and maintain effective procedures for 
identifying and handling incoming wire transfers that do not comply with the 
relevant originator or recipient information requirements, which include:   
 
(a) taking reasonable measures, which are consistent with straight-through 
processing, to identify cross-border wire transfers that lack required originator 
information or required recipient information; and 
(b) having risk-based policies and procedures for determining: (i) when to execute, 
reject, or suspend a wire transfer lacking required originator information or 
required recipient information; and (ii) the appropriate follow-up action. 
 
s.12(10)(a), 
Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
10.17 
 
In respect of the risk-based policies and procedures referred to in paragraph [10.16], 
if a cross-border wire transfer is not accompanied by the required originator 
information or required recipient information, the intermediary institution must as 
soon as reasonably practicable, obtain the missing information from the institution 
from which it receives the transfer instruction.  If the missing information cannot be 
obtained, the intermediary institution should either consider restricting or 
terminating its business relationship with that institution, or take reasonable 
measures to mitigate the risk of ML/TF involved. 
 
s.12(10) 
(b), Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
10.18 
 
If the intermediary institution is aware that the accompanying information that 
purports to be the required originator information or required recipient information 
is incomplete or meaningless, it must as soon as reasonably practicable take 
reasonable measures to mitigate the risk of ML/TF involved. 
 
Beneficiary institutions 
s.19(2), 
Sch. 2, 
AMLO  
10.19 
 
A beneficiary institution must establish and maintain effective procedures for 
identifying and handling incoming wire transfers that do not comply with the 
relevant originator or recipient information requirements, which include:  
 
(a) taking reasonable measures (e.g. post-event monitoring) to identify domestic or 
cross-border wire transfers that lack required originator information or required 
recipient information; and 
(b) having risk-based policies and procedures for determining: (i) when to execute, 
reject, or suspend a wire transfer lacking required originator information or 
required recipient information; and (ii) the appropriate follow-up action. 
 
s.12(9)(a) & 
s.12(10)(a), 
Sch.2, 
AMLO 
10.20 
 
In respect of the risk-based policies and procedures referred to in paragraph [10.19], 
if a domestic or cross-border wire transfer is not accompanied by the required 
originator information or required recipient information, the beneficiary institution 
must as soon as reasonably practicable, obtain the missing information from the 
institution from which it receives the transfer instruction.  If the missing information 
cannot be obtained, the beneficiary institution should either consider restricting or 
terminating its business relationship with that institution, or take reasonable 
measures to mitigate the risk of ML/TF involved. 
 
 
69
s.12(9)(b) 
& 
s.12(10)(b), 
Sch.2, 
AMLO  
10.21 
 
If the beneficiary institution is aware that the accompanying information that 
purports to be the required originator information or required recipient information 
is incomplete or meaningless, it must as soon as reasonably practicable take 
reasonable measures to mitigate the risk of ML/TF involved.   
 
s.3(1) & 
(1A), Sch. 
2, AMLO 
10.22 
 
For a wire transfer of amount equal to or above $8,000 (or an equivalent amount in 
any other currency), a beneficiary institution should verify the identity of the 
recipient, if the identity has not been previously verified. 
 
 
70
Chapter 11 -  REMITTANCE TRANSACTIONS  
Introduction 
s.13 
Sch.2, 
AMLO  
 
11.1 
 
Under section 13 in Schedule 2 of the AMLO, there are special requirements for 
carrying out remittance transactions.  It is important that MSOs should fully 
understand their obligations under the requirements.  
 
Definition of Remittance Transaction 
s.13(3) 
Sch.2, 
AMLO 
 
 
 
 
 
s.1(4) 
Sch.2, 
AMLO  
 
11.2 
 
The AMLO defines a remittance transaction as a transaction for sending, or arranging 
for the sending of, money to a place outside Hong Kong and prescribes the special 
requirements that must be completed by an MSO before carrying out such a 
remittance transaction.  Essentially, these special requirements amount to the 
identification and verification of the originator as defined at paragraph [11.4] below 
and various record keeping requirements.   
 
MSOs should be aware that a remittance transaction is different from a wire transfer. 
For a wire transfer, it is defined by the AMLO as a transaction carried out by an 
institution (ordering institution) on behalf of a person (the originator) by electronic 
means with a view to making an amount of money available to that person or another 
person (the recipient or beneficiary) at an institution (beneficiary institution), which 
may be the ordering institution or another institution, whether or not one or more 
other institutions (intermediary institutions) participate in completion of the transfer 
of money.  Where the transaction is a wire transfer, an MSO should have had regard 
to the guidance provided in Chapter 10 on wire transfers in complying with the special 
requirements under section 12 in Schedule 2 of the AMLO. 
 
Identification and Verification of Originator 
s.13(1) 
Sch.2, 
AMLO  
 
11.3 
 
Before carrying out a remittance transaction, other than a wire transfer, of $8,000 or 
above or of an equivalent amount in any other currency, an MSO is required to 
identify the originator and verify the identity of the originator.   
 
s.13(3) 
Sch.2, 
AMLO  
 
 
11.4 
 
Pursuant to the AMLO, an originator of a remittance transaction is the person from 
whose account with the MSO the money for the remittance is paid; or in the absence 
of such an account, the person who instructs the MSO to carry out the remittance 
transaction.  
 
s.13(2)(a) 
and (b) 
Sch.2, 
AMLO  
 
11.5 
 
An MSO is required to identify and verify the identity of the originator of the 
transaction by reference to the originator’s identification document.   
s.13(2)(c) 
Sch.2, 
AMLO  
 
 
11.6 
 
Before carrying out a remittance transaction, other than a wire transfer, of $8,000 or 
above or of an equivalent amount in any other currency, an MSO is required to record  
(a) the originator’s name; (b) the originator’s identification document number and, if 
the originator’s identification document is a travel document, the place of issue of the 
travel document; (c) the originator’s address; (d) the currency and amount involved; 
and (e) the date and time of receipt of the instruction, the recipient’s name and address 
and the method of delivery.  An MSO should be able to justify that they have taken 
steps in accordance with Chapter 8 to keep the record of the originator and the related 
 
71
transaction with a view to making this information available to the CCE should the 
need arise. 
 
 
 
 
72
APPENDIX A - ILLUSTRATIVE EXAMPLES 
 
Examples of reliable and independent sources for customer identification purposes 
s.2(1)(a) 
(iv) & 
s.2(1)(d)(i)(
D), Sch. 2, 
AMLO 
1 
The identity of an individual physically present in Hong Kong should be verified by 
reference to their Hong Kong identify card or travel document.  MSOs should always 
identify and/or verify a Hong Kong resident’s identity by reference to their Hong 
Kong identity card or document of identity.  The identity of a non-resident should 
be verified by reference to their valid travel document. 
 
 
2 
For non-resident individuals who are not physically present in Hong Kong, MSOs 
may identify and/or verify their identity by reference to the following documents: 
 
(a) a valid international passport or other travel document; or 
(b) a current national (i.e. Government or State-issued) identity card bearing the 
photograph of the individual; or 
(c) current valid national (i.e. Government or State-issued) driving license 72 
incorporating photographic evidence of the identity of the applicant, issued by 
a competent national or state authority.  
 
 
3 
Travel document means a passport or some other document furnished with a 
photograph of the holder establishing the identity and nationality, domicile or place 
of permanent residence of the holder.  The following documents constitute travel 
documents for the purpose of identity verification: 
 
(a) Permanent Resident Identity Card of Macau Special Administrative Region; 
(b) Mainland Travel Permit for Taiwan Residents; 
(c) Seaman’s Identity Document (issued under and in accordance with the 
International Labour Organisation Convention/Seafarers Identity Document 
Convention 1958); 
(d) Taiwan Travel Permit for Mainland Residents; 
(e) Permit for residents of Macau issued by Director of Immigration; 
(f) Exit-entry Permit for Travelling to and from Hong Kong and Macau for Official 
Purposes; and 
(g) Exit-entry Permit for Travelling to and from Hong Kong and Macau. 
 
 
4 
For minors born in Hong Kong who are not in possession of a valid travel document 
or Hong Kong identity card73, their identity should be verified by reference to the 
minor’s Hong Kong birth certificate.  Whenever establishing relations with a minor, 
the identity of the minor’s parent or guardian representing or accompanying the 
minor should also be recorded and verified in accordance with the above 
requirements. 
 
 
5 
An MSO may identify and/or verify a corporate customer by performing a company 
registry search in the place of incorporation and obtaining a full company search 
report, which confirms the current reference to a full company particulars search (or 
overseas equivalent).  
                                                 
72  For avoidance of doubt, international drivers permits and licences are not acceptable for this purpose. 
73  All residents of Hong Kong who are aged 11 and above are required to register for an identity card.  
Hong Kong permanent residents will have a Hong Kong Permanent Identity Card.  The identity card 
of a permanent resident (i.e. a Hong Kong Permanent Identity Card) will have on the front of the card 
a capital letter “A” underneath the individual’s date of birth. 
 
73
 
6 
For jurisdictions that do not have national ID cards and where customers do not have 
a travel document or driving licence with a photograph, MSOs may, exceptionally 
and applying a risk-based approach, accept other documents as evidence of identity.  
Wherever possible such documents should have a photograph of the individual. 
 
Suitable certifiers and the certification procedure 
 
7 
Use of an independent 74 and appropriate person to certify verification of 
identification documents guards against the risk that documentation provided does 
not correspond to the customer whose identity is being verified.  However, for 
certification to be effective, the certifier will need to have seen the original 
documentation. 
 
 
8 
The following is a list of non-exhaustive examples of appropriate persons to certify 
verification of identification documents: 
 
(a) an intermediary specified in section 18(3) of Schedule 2; 
(b) a member of the judiciary in an equivalent jurisdiction; 
(c) an officer of an embassy, consulate or high commission of the country of issue 
of documentary verification of identity; 
(d) a Justice of the Peace; and 
(e) other professional person75 such as certified public accountant, lawyer, notary 
public and chartered secretary76. 
 
 
9 
The certifier should sign and date the copy document (printing his/her name clearly 
in capitals underneath) and clearly indicate his/her position or capacity on it.  The 
certifier should state that it is a true copy of the original (or words to similar effect). 
 
 
10 
MSOs remain liable for failure to carry out prescribed CDD and therefore must 
exercise caution when considering accepting certified copy documents, especially 
where such documents originate from a country perceived to represent a high risk, 
or from unregulated entities in any jurisdiction. 
 
In any circumstances where an MSO is unsure of the authenticity of certified 
documents, or that the documents relate to the customer, MSOs should take 
additional measures to mitigate the ML/TF risk.  
 
                                                 
74 In general, it is not sufficient for the copy documents to be self-certified by the customer.  However, 
an MSO may accept the copy documents certified by a professional person within a legal person 
customer if that professional person is subject to the professional conduct requirements of a relevant 
professional body, and has certified the copy documents in his or her professional capacity. 
75 An MSO may accept other appropriate professional person as certifier.  The MSO should have due 
consideration to paragraph [10] of Appendix A in similar manner to other types of appropriate 
certifiers being used. 
76 A chartered secretary refers to a person who is a current full member of the Institute of Chartered 
Secretaries and Administrators or its designated divisions. 
 
 
74
GLOSSARY OF KEY TERMS AND ABBREVIATIONS 
 
Terms / abbreviations 
Meaning 
AMLO 
Anti-Money 
Laundering 
and 
Counter-Terrorist 
Financing 
Ordinance (Cap. 615) 
 
AML/CFT 
Anti-money laundering and counter-financing of terrorism 
 
AML/CFT Systems 
AML/CFT policies, procedures and controls 
 
CDD 
Customer due diligence 
 
CO 
Compliance officer  
 
DTROP 
Drug Trafficking (Recovery of Proceeds) Ordinance (Cap. 405) 
 
EDD 
Enhanced customer due diligence 
 
FATF 
Financial Action Task Force 
 
FI(s) 
Financial institution(s) 
 
(Note: unless specified otherwise (e.g. an FI as defined in the 
AMLO), the term “financial institutions (FIs)” has the same 
definition as set out in the FATF Recommendations.) 
 
HKMA 
 
Hong Kong Monetary Authority 
JFIU  
Joint Financial Intelligence Unit 
 
MLRO 
Money laundering reporting officer 
 
ML/TF 
Money laundering and terrorist financing  
 
MSO(s) 
Money Service Operator(s)  
 
OSCO 
Organized and Serious Crimes Ordinance (Cap. 455) 
 
PEP(s) 
Politically exposed person(s)  
 
PF 
Financing of proliferation of weapons of mass destruction 
 
RA(s) 
Relevant authority (authorities) 
 
RBA 
Risk-based approach 
 
Schedule 2 
Schedule 2 to the AMLO 
 
SDD 
Simplified due diligence/ Simplified customer due diligence 
 
 
 
75
STR(s) 
 
Suspicious transaction report(s)  
UNATMO 
United Nations (Anti-Terrorism Measures) Ordinance (Cap. 575) 
 
UNSO 
United Nations Sanctions Ordinance (Cap. 537) 
 
WMD(CPS)O 
Weapons of Mass Destruction (Control of Provision of Services) 
Ordinance (Cap. 526) 
 
 
 
