Money Service Operators 
Licensing Guide 
Customs and Excise Department 
May 2026 
1 
Anti‐Money Laundering and Counter‐Terrorist Financing Ordinance, 
Chapter 615 
Licensing Guide for Money Service Operators (MSOs) 
Summary 
1.
The purpose of this notice
This licensing guide will help you to find out:‐
whether you need to apply for an MSO licence with us
when and how to apply for an MSO licence
what fees you need to pay
what the fit and proper person test is for MSOs
what the suitable premises are for operating a money service
2.
What is included in this licensing guide?
Section I 
 Gives a brief overview of the role of the Customs and Excise 
Department (C&ED) as the relevant authority under the  AMLO. 
Section II 
 Explains who needs to apply for a licence as an MSO. 
Section III 
 Explains who does not need to apply for a licence. 
Section IV 
 Explains who is eligible for an MSO licence. 
Section V 
 Explains how to apply for a licence as an MSO. 
Section VI 
 Explains how to renew for an MSO licence. 
Section VII 
 Explains the Commissioner of Customs and Excise (CCE)’s ability to 
suspend or revoke an MSO licence. 
Section VIII 
Explains the changes that need the prior approval of the CCE. 
 Section IX 
Explains what to do if you have other business details changed after you 
have been licensed. 
Section X 
Explains what to do if you cease your whole business or business in 
specified premises. 
Section XI 
 Explains what to do to maintain an MSO licence. 
Section XII 
 Explains what the Licensee Register contains and where to inspect. 
Section XIII  Explains what disciplinary action is. 
Section XIV  Explains the fee schedule of application for an MSO licence and its 
related issues. 
Section XV 
 Explains whom you can contact if you need further advice. 
Section XVI  Provides the list of documents required in support of the application for 
 grant or renewal of an MSO licence 
2 
 
Table of Contents 
 
 
 
Section 
Page 
I 
Introduction 
3 
II 
Licence application 
3 
III 
Exemption 
5 
IV 
Eligibility for a licence 
6 
V 
Application procedures 
12 
VI 
Renewal of licence 
16 
VII 
Revocation and suspension of MSO licence 
17 
VIII 
Changes that require CCE’s prior approval 
18 
IX 
Notification of changes in particulars 
20 
X 
Cessation of business 
22 
XI 
Licensee’s obligations 
23 
XII 
Register of licensees 
24 
XIII 
Disciplinary actions 
24 
XIV 
Fee schedule 
25 
XV 
Enquiries 
25 
XVI 
Checklist of supporting documents for application for an 
MSO licence 
26 
-
3 
 
I. Introduction 
 
1.1 The Customs and Excise Department (C&ED) is the authority for regulating the 
money service operators (MSO) with effect from 1 April 2012.  Relevant powers are 
provided under the Anti‐Money Laundering and Counter‐Terrorist Financing 
Ordinance, Chapter 615 (AMLO). 
 
1.2 
 
 
 
 
 
This licensing guide is for individuals and corporations who operate or wish to 
operate money service in Hong Kong.  It sets out notes on the licensing requirements 
under the AMLO and explains the application procedures in details. It also provides 
information relating to the on‐going obligations for MSO licensee (licensee) and 
possible actions taken by C&ED for the improper acts. 
1.3 This licensing guide applies to an applicant for grant or renewal of an MSO licence 
(applicant) or a licensee as the case may be. 
 
 
II. 
 
 
 
 Licence application 
2.1 
Who is required to apply for a licence? 
 
If a person who operates or wishes to operate a money service, he or she is required 
to apply for a licence. 
 
2.2 What is a money service? 
 A money service means a money changing service or a remittance service. 
 
2.3 What is a money changing service? 
 A money changing service means a service for exchanging of currencies that is 
operated in Hong Kong as a business, but does not include such a service that is 
incidental to the main business e.g. retail business accepting foreign currencies in 
transactions or that is operated by a person who manages a hotel if the service 
(a) is operated within the premises of the hotel primarily for the convenience of 
guests of the hotel; and 
(b) consists solely of transactions for the purchase by that person of non‐Hong 
Kong currencies in exchange for Hong Kong currency 
 
2.4 What is a remittance service? 
 A remittance service means a service of one or more of the following that is 
operated in Hong Kong as a business— 
(a) sending, or arranging for the sending of, money to a place outside Hong Kong; 
(b) receiving, or arranging for the receipt of, money from a place outside Hong 
Kong; 
(c) arranging for the receipt of money in a place outside Hong Kong. 
4 
2.5 
Is there a licence application fee? 
Yes, there is a fee for application for the grant or renewal of a licence (see Fee 
schedule at section XIV). 
2.6 
Is it required to make a separate application for additional premises in which a 
money service is operated other than the principal premises during the application 
for the grant of a licence? 
No, a separate application is not required. The applicant must include each 
additional premises in which money service is operated in an application for licence 
and pay a fee for each additional business premises to be registered (see Fee 
Schedule at section XIV). 
2.7 When is it required to apply for a licence? 
A person must apply for a licence from the CCE before he or she operates a money 
service. 
2.8 
Will an application fee collected for processing of the application for grant or 
renewal of an MSO licence be refunded if the CCE refuses to grant or renewal a 
licence? 
No refund will be made for application fee collected irrespective of whether the 
application is subsequently approved or refused. 
2.9 
What will be the form of licence to MSO? 
A licence to MSO is to be in a form specified by the CCE and must— 
(a) specify—
(i)
in relation to a licence to operate a money service at specified premises,
the address of every premises at which the licensee may operate a
money service; or
(ii)
in any other case, the correspondence address of the licensee;
(b) be endorsed with the conditions imposed or amended under section 30, 31 or
32 of  the AMLO; and
(c)
specify the period for which the licence is valid.
2.10 
What is the validity period of a licence granted? 
Normally, the validity period of a licence granted will be 2 years.  The licensee is 
required to apply for renewal of the licence before expiry if the applicant wishes to 
continue operating a money service. 
In any other cases, a licence ceases to be valid— 
(a) if the licensee is an individual, on the death of the individual;
(b) if the licensee is a partnership, on the dissolution of the partnership; or
(c) if the licensee is a corporation, on the commencement of winding up of the
corporation.
5 
2.11 What is the consequence of not applying for a licence to operate a money service? 
Section 29(1) of the AMLO provides that a person commits an offence if the person 
operates a money service without a licence.  Section 29(2) of the AMLO 
provides that a person who commits an offence under section 29(1) is liable—
(a) on conviction on indictment to a fine of HK$1,000,000 and to imprisonment
for 2 years; or (b) on summary conviction to a fine of $100,000 and to
imprisonment for 6 months.
III.
Exemption
3.1 
Are there any licensing exemptions? 
Yes, according to the AMLO, the MSO licensing requirement does not apply to the 
Government nor to: 
(a) an authorized institution;
(b) a licensed corporation that operates a money service that is ancillary to the
corporation’s principal business;
(c) an authorized insurer that operates a money service that is ancillary to the
insurer’s principal business;
(d) an authorized insurance broker that operates a money service that is ancillary
to the broker’s principal business;
(e) an appointed insurance agent that operates a money service that is ancillary
to the agent’s principal business;
(f)
an SVF licensee that operates a money service that is ancillary to the
licensee’s principal business; or
(g) a system operator or settlement institution of a designated retail payment
system that operates a money service that is ancillary to its business as a
system operator or settlement institution.
CCE will not accept any application for grant or renewal of licence if an applicant 
has been exempted from the MSO licensing requirements. 
3.2 What is an authorized institution? 
An authorized institution has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the Banking 
Ordinance, Chapter 155. 
3.3 What is a licensed corporation? 
A licensed corporation has the meaning given by section 1 of Part 1 of Schedule 1 
to the Securities and Futures Ordinance, Chapter 571. 
3.4 What is an authorized insurer? 
An authorized insurer means an insurer authorized under the Insurance Companies 
Ordinance, Chapter 41. 
3.5 What is an authorized insurance broker? 
6 
An authorized insurance broker has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the 
Insurance Companies Ordinance, Chapter 41. 
3.6 What is an appointed insurance agent? 
An appointed insurance agent has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the 
Insurance Companies Ordinance, Chapter 41. 
3.7 
What is an SVF licensee? 
An SVF licensee means a person who is granted a licence under section 8F of the 
Payment Systems and Stored Value Facilities Ordinance, Chapter 584. 
3.8 
What is a system operator? 
A system operator has the meaning given by section 2 of the Payment Systems and 
Stored Value Facilities Ordinance, Chapter 584. 
3.9 
What is a settlement institution? 
A settlement institution has the meaning given by section 2 of the Payment 
Systems and Stored Value Facilities Ordinance, Chapter 584. 
IV. Eligibility for a licence
4.1 Who is eligible to obtain a licence? 
Under section 30(3) of the AMLO, the CCE may grant or renew a licence to an 
applicant to operate a money service only if the CCE is satisfied that — 
(a) where the applicant is an individual, the individual and each ultimate owner
is a fit and proper person to operate a money service;
(b) where the applicant is a partnership, each partner and each ultimate owner
in the partnership is a fit and proper person to operate a money service; or
(c)
where the applicant is a corporation, each director and each ultimate owner
of the corporation is a fit and proper person to be associated with the
business of operating a money service.
4.2 Who is an ultimate owner? 
4.2.1  An ultimate owner in relation to an applicant for a licence or a licensee that 
is an individual — 
(a) means another individual who ultimately owns or controls the money
service business of the first‐mentioned individual; or
(b) if the first‐mentioned individual is acting on behalf of another person,
means the other person.
4.2.2 An ultimate owner in relation to an applicant for a licence or a licensee that 
is a partnership, means an individual who — 
(a) is entitled to or controls, directly or indirectly, more than a 25% share of
the capital or profits of the partnership;
7 
(b) is, directly or indirectly, entitled to exercise or control the exercise of
more than 25% of the voting rights in the partnership; or
(c) exercises ultimate control over the management of the partnership.
4.2.3  An ultimate owner in relation to an applicant for a licence or a licensee that is 
a corporation, means an individual who – 
(a) owns or controls, directly or indirectly, including through a trust or bearer 
share holding, more than 25% of the issued share capital of the
corporation;
(b) is, directly or indirectly, entitled to exercise or control the exercise of
more than 25% of the voting rights at general meetings of the
corporation; or
(c) exercises ultimate control over the management of the corporation.
4.3  What does a fit and proper person mean? 
In determining whether a person is a fit and proper person, the CCE must have 
regard to the following: 
(a)
whether the person has been convicted of
(i)
an offence under section 5(5), (6), (7) or (8), 10(1), (3), (5), (6), (7) or
(8), 13(1), (3), (5), (6), (7) or (8), 17(9), 20(1), 61(2) or 66(3) of the
AMLO;
(ii) an offence under section 14 of the United Nations (Anti‐Terrorism
Measures) Ordinance, Chapter 575;
(iii) an offence under section 25(1), 25A(5) or (7) of, or any offence
specified in Schedule 1 to, the Drug Trafficking (Recovery of
Proceeds) Ordinance, Chapter 405; or
(iv) an offence under section 25(1), 25A(5) or (7) of, or any offence
specified in Schedule 1 or 2 to, the Organized and Serious Crimes
Ordinance, Chapter 455;
(b)
whether the person has been convicted in a place outside Hong Kong‐
(i)
for an offence in respect an act that would have constituted an
offence specified in the above paragraph (a)(i), (ii), (iii) or (iv) had it
been done in Hong Kong;
(ii) for an offence relating to money laundering or terrorist financing
(ML/TF); or
(iii) for an offence for which it was necessary to find that the person had
acted fraudulently, corruptly or dishonestly;
(c)
whether the person has persistently failed to comply with any
requirement imposed under this Ordinance or any regulation made by
the CCE under section 51;
(d)
whether the person, being an individual, is an undischarged bankrupt or
is the subject of any bankruptcy proceedings under the Bankruptcy
Ordinance, Chapter 6;
(e)
whether the person, being a corporation, is in liquidation or is the
subject of a winding up order, or there is a receiver appointed in relation
to it; and
8 
(f)
any other matter that the CCE considers relevant.
Licence applicants and licensees may refer to the Guideline on Criteria for 
Determining Fitness and Propriety and its Supplementary Guideline issued by the 
CCE for further details. 
4.4 What do particular premises used for operation of a money service mean and do 
such premises need to be registered? 
The particular premises need to be registered are those in which you operate a 
money changing service and/or a remittance service.  Here are some examples of 
particular premises to operate a money service business: 
(a) the premises are occupied for operating a money service there;
(b) the premises are advertised (including a signboard on display) for
meeting customers there; and
(c)
the premises are regularly controlled by the licensee, i.e. being a landlord
or a tenant.
However, premises are not treated as particular premises for operating a money 
service if you are only a visitor or a customer at premises such as dining 
establishments or banks, or at accountant or solicitor firms merely for processing 
accounting or legal documents for your company. 
4.5 What if there are no particular business premises? 
The following examples are not considered as operating a money service at 
particular premises: 
(a) operating a money service without any fixed premises, e.g. door‐to‐  
 door service;
(b) meeting customers at a customer office; or
(c)
conducting transactions with the use of mobile electronic  devices.
If there are no particular premises for operating your money service, you must 
provide a local management office, a correspondence address, and a local place 
for storage of books and records in the application form. 
4.6 
What particular premises are considered suitable or not suitable to be registered 
for the operation of a money service? 
In addition to the relevant statutory requirement stipulated in the AMLO, C&ED 
will consider the suitability of a particular premises from the perspective of 
appropriateness and legitimacy of the licensee in operating a money service, e.g. 
without infringing the consumer’s rights under applicable laws. 
The following examples are considered suitable to be registered for the operation 
of a money service: 
(a) Particular premises should be accessible by C&ED officers for carrying
9 
out their functions under the MSO regulatory regime; and 
(b) Where particular premises are situated in a mixed commercial and
residential building (i.e. situated in domestic premises), the applicant
has secured the written consent of every occupant of the premises for
any authorized person of C&ED to enter the premises to conduct
inspection.
The following examples are considered NOT suitable to be registered for the 
operation of a money service: 
(a) Particular premises are situated in a wholly residential building;
(b) Particular premises are being used by other MSO for operating a money
service or being declared by other applicant for grant/renewal of an
MSO licence;
(c)
Particular premises that are not accessible without the permission or
assistance of the occupant/owner of other business sharing the same
premises in which the area occupied/owned by another party becomes
de facto the entrance to the particular premises; or
(d) Business name displayed on the signboard of the particular premises is
different from the business name registered in the Business
Registration Certificate which is submitted for the grant or renewal of
an MSO licence or notification of changes in particulars in connection
with the licence application.
4.7 
What is a local management office? 
An applicant who chooses to operate a money service without particular premises 
must maintain a physical presence in Hong Kong, which will be its local 
management office (LMO) and correspondence address of the business/ 
corporation.  The LMO is a physical office which can be reached in person and 
through telephone by C&ED officers to perform the functions under the AMLO, as 
well as receive document/correspondence from C&ED such as circulars and 
notices to the licensee.  Personnel in the LMO must be the sole proprietor, partner, 
director, ultimate owner and/or Compliance Officer (CO) of the licensee.  As such, 
residential address/premises of an MSO or the address/premises of its service 
provider (if any), such as company secretarial firm, accounting firm, or solicitor 
firm, etc. will not be accepted by the CCE as the LMO of an MSO. This is necessary 
to provide a local office and the personnel of the licensee as a point of contact for 
interfacing with C&ED for the effective supervision of the licensee’s money service 
business.  In addition, the landlord of the LMO must grant permission to the 
licensee to use the premises for money service business, which should be included 
in the tenancy agreement of the LMO or in a letter issued by the landlord to the 
applicant. 
Failure to submit the information of LMO for licence application/renewal 
application is deemed as invalid application which will not be processed by C&ED 
10 
 
and/or will result in refusal to grant licence.  If a licensee fails to maintain the LMO 
or if the LMO fails to serve as a point of contact for interfacing with C&ED, such as 
without the presence of the licensee’s personnel, it will result in the suspension 
and/or revocation of the licence. C&ED will conduct check to ensure the suitability 
of premises applied to be a LMO. 
 
 
4.8 
What if there is other business being run on the same business premises? 
 
Where other business is being run on the same premises of an applicant, the 
money service business of the MSO must be clearly partitioned and distinguished 
from the other business.  Sharing the premises with other MSO to operate money 
service business will not be accepted by the CCE. 
 
4.9 
What happen if there are premises which are required to be registered but being 
omitted in the application? 
 
Section 52(2) of the AMLO provides that a person commits an offence if the person 
in connection with an application for the grant or renewal of a licence omits a 
material particular and knows that or is reckless as to whether, the material 
particular is omitted.  Section 52(3) of the AMLO provides that a person commits 
an offence under section 52(2) is liable on conviction to a fine up to HK$50,000 
and imprisonment for up to 6 months. 
 
4.10 
Is there any other requirement for the particular premises being used to operate 
a money service? 
 Where the premises in respect of which an application is made belong to mixed 
commercial and residential building, the applicant should secure the written 
consent of every occupant of the premises for any authorized person to enter the 
premises for routine inspection.   
 
In addition, all applicants are required to have a local place for storage of books and 
records (LPS). 
 
4.11 
What is a local place for storage of books and records? 
 
An applicant is required to provide the information of a local place for storage of 
books and records (LPS) in Hong Kong, which is a physical place for keeping the full 
set of books and records in respect of its money service transactions.  The LPS must 
be under the control of the licensee so as to facilitate the C&ED officer’s access to 
them to perform the functions under the AMLO.  As such, residential 
address/premises of an MSO or the address/premises of its service provider (if 
any), such as company secretarial firm, accounting firm or solicitor firm, etc. will 
not be accepted by the CCE as the LPS of an MSO.  In addition, the landlord of the 
LPS must grant permission to the MSO to use the premises for money service 
business, which should be included in the tenancy agreement of the LPS or in a 
letter issued by the landlord to the applicant. 
11 
 
 
Failure to submit the information of LPS for licence application/renewal 
application is deemed as invalid application which will not be processed by C&ED 
and/or will result in refusal to grant licence.  If a licensee fails to maintain the LPS, 
it will result in the suspension and/or revocation of the licence. 
 
4.12 Who is an authorized person mentioned in paragraph 4.10? 
 An authorized person means any person authorized by the CCE under section 9(12) 
of the AMLO. 
 
4.13 Is there a fee for fit and proper person test? 
 Yes, there is a one-off fee for each applicant (see Fee Schedule at section XIV). 
 
4.14 Will fit and proper person test fee be refunded? 
No, the fee paid for the fit and proper person test is non‐refundable. 
4.15 Is there any other requirement for the applicant or holder of MSO licence? 
 (a) An applicant is required to appoint a competent CO and an Money Laundering 
Reporting Officer (MLRO) to act respectively as the focal point for the oversight 
of applicant’s anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing (AML/CFT) 
systems and compliance measures and the central reference point for reporting 
suspicious transactions. 
Except that the sole proprietor, partner, director, or ultimate owner of the 
applicant is also the CO and MLRO, the CO and MLRO must be the applicant’s 
employee under the definition of Employment Ordinance, Cap. 57, Laws of Hong 
Kong.  Applicants and licensees may refer to the Guideline on AML/CFT issued by 
the CCE (AML Guideline) for the requirements of CO and MLRO. 
 
(b) The sole proprietor, any one of the partners and directors of an applicant or a 
licensee must pass a Competence Assessment (Assessment) conducted by the 
C&ED with a view to ensuring that the senior management of an applicant or a 
licensee has clear understanding of ML/TF risks to which it is exposed, and is 
capable of implementing effective AML/CFT systems to adequately manage and 
mitigate the ML/TF risks identified in order to meet the statutory AML/CFT 
obligations.  Applicants and licensees may refer to the “Guidance Notes on the 
Competence Assessment for MSOs” issued by the CCE for further details. 
 
(c) Any person carrying on business in Hong Kong is required to register the business 
under the Business Registration Ordinance, Cap. 310, Laws of Hong Kong.  An 
applicant or a licensee must have a valid Business Registration Certificate issued 
by the Commissioner of Inland Revenue, otherwise, the application for a licence 
will not be processed by C&ED, or if a licence has been granted, the licence will 
be subject to suspension and/or revocation by the CCE. 
 
12 
V. Application procedures
Application for a licence to operate money service
5.1 How do you apply for a licence? 
An applicant needs to complete an application form (Form 1), supplementary 
information sheet and the relevant annex and submit a (i) Business Plan; and (ii) 
AML/CFT policies (hereafter refers to as “AML Policy”).  The applicant may 
complete the form, supplementary information sheet and annex in either English 
or Chinese, or both if the case requires, and has to fill in all the parts in the form, 
supplementary information sheet and annex which is applicable to the applicant.  
The completed form, supplementary information sheet and annex must be 
submitted to the C&ED together with the photocopies of the requisite documents 
(see the checklist of supporting documents in the application Form) by post or via 
C&ED’s website or in person to the Money Service Supervision Bureau, C&ED, Units 
402-403, 4/F, Centre Parc, 11 Sheung Yuet Road, Kowloon Bay, Kowloon.  The 
application form, annex, supplementary information sheet and guidelines for 
submission of Business Plan and AML Policy can be obtained from the above
 address or downloaded from C&ED’s website at 
https://eservices.customs.gov.hk/MSOS/. 
For new application to operate a money service at particular premises, at least two 
photographs of size 102x152 mm (i.e. 4R‐size) should be attached to the 
application form.  One photograph should show the inner part such as counter or 
office of the particular premises, whereas another photograph should show the 
outer part such as signboard of the particular 
premises. 
 
Where
 
an applicant also
 
has separate premises
 
which serve
 
as LPS and/ or LMO, at least two 
photographs should also be attached for each additional LPS and/or LMO.  The 
photograph requirements for LPS and LMO are the same as those applicable to 
particular premises.  
Where there is a failure to submit the
 
information or
 
documents
 
as required for new 
licence application
 
in a specified period, the application will be deemed to be 
invalid application which will not be processed by C&ED.
5.2
 
What are
 
Business Plan
 
and
 
AML
 
Policy?
 
Business Plan should be a comprehensive overview of the business, which includes 
but not limited to such components as detailed operation mode, organizational 
structure, payment system, target customer, staffing, and finance of the company.
 
For example, if an applicant intends to operate a money service without using bank 
account, the applicant is required to provide relevant details as to how its money 
service business is operated in this circumstance.
  
13 
AML Policy should set out, among others, the applicant’s own policies, procedures 
and controls in the relevant operational areas with a view to mitigating the ML/TF 
risks to which the applicant is exposed and fulfilling the relevant statutory and 
regulatory requirements.  For example, an applicant is required to elaborate the 
company’s payment/settlement system for remittance transactions, and the 
company’s mechanism for sanction screening and screening of high-risk customers. 
To prepare Business Plan and AML Policy, applicant should follow the Guidelines 
for Submission of Business Plan and the Guidelines for Submission of AML Policy, 
which are available on C&ED’s website at https://eservices.customs.gov.hk/MSOS/. 
5.3 
Can applicants submit an application through electronic means? 
Yes, an applicant can access the C&ED’s website at 
https://eservices.customs.gov.hk/MSOS/ and follow the instructions to submit the 
licence application.  Applicants may refer to Section XVI of this licensing guide for 
the documents required in support of the application. 
5.4 How will the application be processed? 
On receipt of a licence application by C&ED, an applicant will have an 
acknowledgment receipt of the application.  A reminder for provision of any 
outstanding documents will be issued to the applicant where necessary.  If the 
applicant fails to provide requisite information on the application form, annex and 
supplementary information sheet; or produce the requisite documents including 
Business Plan and AML Policy within a specified period, the application will be 
considered invalid and will not be processed by the C&ED.  
When all the requisite documents are submitted, the applicant will receive a notice 
for an interview together with a demand note for the payment of fees regarding 
the application for the grant of a licence and fit and proper person test and an 
invitation letter for nominating the eligible person(s), i.e. sole proprietor, partner(s) 
or director(s) of the applicant to attend the Assessment.  The applicant will be 
required to bring along the notice, payment record, and the relevant original 
documents in attending an interview at the allotted time with the officers of the 
department.   
During the interview, the original documents and the payment record will be 
verified, and the applicant will be required to sign on the application for an MSO 
licence in the presence of the C&ED officers.  Besides, the applicant will be required 
to clarify and elaborate any information of the submitted documents in relation to 
the licence application e.g. its Business Plan and AML Policy provided for the 
application.  With a view to ensuring that the applicant can fully understand and 
fulfil the obligations of an MSO licensee, the applicant will be briefed on the 
statutory licensing and compliance requirements applicable to MSOs. 
14 
 
An appointment letter for the Assessment will be sent to the applicant.  The eligible 
person(s) nominated for the Assessment must attend the Assessment at the 
specified date, time and centre.  The result of the Assessment will be one of the 
factors that the CCE considers relevant in determining whether the applicant is fit 
and proper to operate the business of a money service.  Failure to attend the 
designated session of the Assessment may result in refusal of the licence 
application. 
 
For more details about the Assessment, applicants and licensees may refer to the 
“Guidance Notes on the Competence Assessment for MSOs”. 
 
5.5 Who is required to attend the interview? 
 The person attending the interview must be: 
(a) the sole proprietor, where the applicant belongs to sole proprietorship; 
(b) the partner(s) or staff member(s) of the applicant authorized in writing by every 
partner, where the applicant belongs to partnership; or 
(c) the directors or staff member(s) of the applicant authorized in writing by the 
board of directors, where the applicant belongs to corporation. 
 
5.6 How long will the application be processed? 
 The processing time may vary and depend on various factors including the time 
taken in collecting requisite documents from the applicant, on‐site inspection at the 
business premises, the time required in obtaining records from other authorities to 
perform a fit and proper person test, and the time taken for completing the 
Assessment. 
 
 Application for the fit and proper person test 
 
5.7 Who is required to apply for fit and proper person test? 
 Where the applicant is an individual, the individual and each ultimate owner, or is 
a partnership, each partner in a partnership and each ultimate owner, or is a 
corporation, each director and each ultimate owner of the corporation to be 
associated with the business of operating a money service is required to apply for 
the fit and proper person test. 
 
5.8 How do you apply for the fit and proper person test? 
 The applicant needs to complete a Fit and Proper Person Declaration Form (Form 
3A with Appendices I & II for individual and Form 3B for corporation) and submit 
the Form together with supporting document to C&ED.  Regarding the Appendix I 
which is attached to Form 3A, the declarant has to sign in the presence of a witness 
who is an authorized officer of the C&ED, a practicing professional (e.g. solicitor, 
accountant, auditor), a notary public or a Justice of the Peace.  The witness shall 
check the personal particulars as stated in the Appendix I against the original 
identity document(s) of the declarant and certify that the personal particulars 
15 
 
stated therein are true and correct.  The witness shall also certify that this 
Appendix I is signed by the declarant in his or her presence. 
 
5.9 How will the fit and proper person test application be processed? 
 On receipt of a fit and proper person declaration form, the CCE will undertake a 
number of checks to confirm the accuracy of the information provided.  This will 
include vetting details against information held by this department, other 
government and law enforcement agencies. 
 
5.10 Under what circumstances may the CCE refuse to grant a licence to an applicant to 
operate a money service? 
 
For example, the CCE may refuse to grant a licence on the following situations and 
inform the applicant by notice in writing of his decision: 
(a) an applicant or one or more applicants within the applicant’s business fail 
to satisfy the fit and proper person test; 
(b) the premises to be used are not suitable for the operation of a money 
service;  
(c) an applicant cannot obtain the written consent from every occupant of 
the particular premises which are situated in a mixed commercial and 
residential building (i.e. situated in domestic premises) to be used for the 
operation of a money service for any authorized person to enter for 
routine inspection; 
(d) an applicant fails to provide the information of a LPS;  
(e) an applicant who chooses to operate a money service without particular 
premises fails to provide the information of a LMO; 
(f) an applicant fails to provide Business Plan and AML Policy in accordance 
with the relevant guidelines promulgated by C&ED;  
(g) an applicant fails to appoint a competent CO or MLRO;  
(h) an applicant submits an incomplete or invalid application;  
(i) 
none of the senior management of an applicant, i.e. the sole proprietor, 
partner or director, attends the Assessment designated by C&ED;  
(j) 
none of the senior management of an applicant, i.e. the sole proprietor, 
partner or director, passes the Assessment designated by C&ED; or 
(k) an applicant has been exempted from the MSO licensing regime by virtue 
of section 25 of the AMLO. 
 
5.11 Can an applicant appeal against the decision of the CCE for the refusal of granting 
a licence to operate money service? 
 Yes, the applicant may appeal against CCE’s decision to Anti‐Money Laundering and 
Counter‐Terrorist Financing Review Tribunal within the period ending 21 days after 
the notice informing the applicant of the refusal of grant of an MSO licence. 
 
 
 
16 
 
 
VI. Renewal of licence 
 
6.1 When is it required to renew the MSO licence? 
 A licensee is required to renew the MSO licence not later than 45 days before the 
licence is due to expire. 
 
6.2 Will a reminder be sent to a licensee before the expiry of the licence? 
 Yes, the department will send a reminder enclosing with the invitation letter for 
nominating the eligible person(s), i.e. sole-proprietor, partner(s) or director(s) of 
the licensee, to attend the Assessment to each licensee 90 days before the expiry 
of the licence.  However, it is the licensee’s legal responsibility to apply for renewal 
45 days before expiry of the licence. 
 
It is to note that attending the Assessment is also a licensing requirement for the 
CCE to determine whether the licensee or applicant is fit and proper to operate the 
business of a money service.  The licensee is required to nominate the eligible 
person(s) for the Assessment within seven days upon receipt of the invitation letter.  
The eligible person(s) nominated for the Assessment will attend the Assessment 
within 30 days upon receipt of the invitation letter. 
 
An appointment letter for the Assessment will be sent to the licensee.  The eligible 
person(s) nominated for the Assessment must attend the Assessment at the 
specified date, time and centre.  The result of the Assessment will be one of the 
factors that the CCE considers relevant in determining whether the licensee is still 
fit and proper to operate the business of a money service.  Failure to attend the 
designated session of the Assessment will result in rejection of the corresponding 
application. 
 
For more details about the Assessment, applicants and licensees may refer to the 
“Guidance Notes on the Competence Assessment for MSOs”. 
 
6.3 How does a licensee renew his or her licence? 
 A licensee must submit his or her application for renewal (Form 2), supplementary 
information sheet and the relevant annex together with the fit and proper person 
declaration forms (number of such forms is subject to the number of persons 
required for fit and proper person test), its Business Plan, AML Policy and 
photocopies of requisite documents by post or in person or via C&ED’s website at 
https://eservices.customs.gov.hk/MSOS/. 
 
For renewal application to operate a money service at particular premises, at least 
two photographs of size 102x152 mm (i.e. 4R-size) should be attached to the 
application form.  One photograph should show the inner part such as counter or 
office of the particular premises, whereas another photograph should show the 
17 
outer part such as signboard of the particular premises.  Where an applicant also has 
separate premises which serve as LPS and/or LMO, at least two photographs should 
also be attached for each additional LPS and/or LMO.  The photograph requirements 
for LPS and LMO are the same as those applicable to particular premises.  
Upon receipt of the application for renewal and fit and proper person test, CCE will 
acknowledge receipt of the renewal applications and a reminder for provision of 
any outstanding documents will be issued to the applicant where necessary.  If the 
applicant fails to produce the documents within a specified period, the application 
will be considered invalid and will not be processed by C&ED.  
When all the requisite documents are found to be in order, CCE will issue a notice 
for an interview together with a demand note to the licensee for payment of 
respective fees which are non‐refundable. 
6.4 What if a licensee cannot submit the renewal application before the 45-day statutory 
requirement or cannot provide all the requisite documents to C&ED? 
The application will deem to be an invalid application which will not be further 
processed by C&ED if — 
a) a licensee cannot submit the duly completed Form 2, supplementary
information sheet and the relevant annex to C&ED 45 days before the expiry of
the licence;
b) when a reminder for provision of any outstanding documents issued to the
licensee by C&ED but the licensee fails to produce all the supporting documents
within specified period; or
c) a licensee fails to nominate any eligible person(s) for the Assessment within
seven day upon receipt of the invitation letter.
If a licensee submits an invalid renewal application which cannot be processed by 
C&ED, the existing licence will lapse automatically upon the expiry of the validity 
period.  The licensee must cease money service operation.  An unlicensed operation 
of a money service is an offence. 
VII. Revocation and suspension of MSO licence
7.1 Under what circumstances the CCE may revoke or suspend an MSO licence? 
The following is a non-exhaustive list of examples that the CCE may revoke or 
suspend a licence: 
(a) the licensee, the individual, any partner, any director and any ultimate owner in
relation to the licensee is no longer a fit and proper person to operate a money
service/to be associated with the business of operating a money service after the
grant of a licence;
(b) any occupant of the premises revokes his or her written consent previously given
18 
 
for any authorized officer to enter the premises for routine inspection;  
(c) any new occupant of the premises refuses to give such a written consent; 
(d) the licensee fails to maintain a LPS or the LPS falls foul of the requirements set  
out in this licensing guide; 
(e) where a licensee operates a money service without particular premises, the 
licensee fails to maintain a LMO or the LMO falls foul of the requirements set out 
in this licensing guide; 
(f) where a licensee fails to submit a periodic return on time;  
(g) where a licensee’s holding of the licence fails to fulfill the purpose (i.e. provision 
of money service) for which the licence was issued.  An example is a money 
service has never been provided by the licensee;  
(h) where a licensee fails to comply with any requirements provided under the AMLO 
including requirements stipulated in Part 5 of the AMLO; and 
(i) where a licensee fails to appoint or maintain a competent CO or MLRO. 
 
For more details about the fit and proper person criteria, licence applicants and 
licensees may refer to the Guideline on Criteria for Determining Fitness and 
Propriety and its Supplementary Guideline issued by the CCE. 
 
7.2 Will a licensee have an opportunity to be heard for the revocation or suspension of 
licence? 
 Yes, the CCE will inform the licensee of the revocation or suspension of licence by 
notice in writing and give the licensee an opportunity to be heard before revoking 
or suspending the licence. 
 
7.3 Can a licensee appeal against the decision of the CCE for the revocation or 
suspension of the licence? 
 Yes, the licensee may appeal against CCE’s decision to Anti‐Money Laundering and 
Counter‐Terrorist Financing Review Tribunal within the period ending 21 days after the 
notice informing the licensee of the decision has been sent. 
 
 
VIII. Changes that require CCE’s prior approval 
 
8.1 Does a licensee need to seek prior approval from the CCE when there is a person 
proposing to become licensee’s director? 
 Yes, a licensee needs to make an application in Form 4 and the proposing director 
needs to submit the fit and proper person declaration form. 
 
8.2 Does a licensee need to seek prior approval from the CCE when there is a person 
proposing to become the licensee’s ultimate owner? 
 Yes, a licensee needs to make an application in Form 4 and the proposing ultimate 
owner needs to submit the fit and proper person declaration form. 
 
19 
 
 
8.3 
 
Does a licensee need to seek prior approval from the CCE when there is a person 
proposing to become the licensee’s partners? 
 Yes, a licensee needs to make an application in Form 4 and the proposing partner 
needs to submit the fit and proper person declaration form. 
 
8.4 Does a licensee need to seek prior approval from the CCE if he or she wishes to add 
premises to operate a money service at any particular premises? 
 Yes, if a licensee wishes to add premises to operate a money service, the licensee 
needs to make an application in Form 5 to add the premises.  
 
If a licensee operating a money service without particular premises wishes to make 
a change to operation of a money service at particular premises, apart from the 
need to submit an application in Form 5 to C&ED, the licensee needs to submit a 
Business Plan and updated AML Policy to notify the CCE of the change in operation 
mode of its money service. 
 
8.5 What is the consequence if a licensee fails to seek prior approval from the CCE for 
the addition of director(s)? 
 Section 35(1) of the AMLO provides that in relation to a licensee that is a 
corporation, a person must not become a director of the corporation unless the 
CCE has, on application of the licensee, given his or her approval in writing.  Section 
35(7) of the AMLO provides that a person who, without reasonable excuse, 
contravenes section 35(1) commits an offence and is liable on conviction to fine of 
HK$50,000 and to imprisonment for 6 months.  The CCE may also take disciplinary 
actions under section 43(1)(c) of the AMLO for contravention of section 35(1) of the 
AMLO.  
 
8.6 What is the consequence if a licensee fails to seek prior approval from the CCE for 
the addition of ultimate owner(s)? 
 Section 36(1) of the AMLO provides that a person must not become an ultimate 
owner of the licensee unless the CCE has, on application of the licensee, given his 
or her approval in writing.  Section 36(7) of the AMLO provides that a person, who, 
without reasonable excuse, contravenes section 36(1) commits an offence and is 
liable on conviction to a fine of HK$50,000 and to imprisonment for 6 months.  The 
CCE may also take disciplinary actions under section 43(1)(c) of the AMLO for 
contravention of section 36(1) of the AMLO. 
 
8.7 What is the consequence if a licensee fails to seek prior approval from the CCE for 
the addition of partner(s)? 
 Section 37(1) of the AMLO provides that in relation to a licensee that is a 
partnership, a person must not become a partner in the partnership unless the CCE 
has, on application of the licensee, given his or her approval in writing.  Section 
37(7) of the AMLO provides that a person who, without reasonable excuse, 
20 
 
contravenes section 37(1) commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine 
of HK$50,000 and to imprisonment for 6 months.  The CCE may also take 
disciplinary actions under section 43(1)(c) of the AMLO for contravention of section 
37(1) of the AMLO. 
 
8.8 What is the consequence if a licensee fails to seek prior approval from the CCE for 
the adding of new business premises? 
 Section 38(1) of the AMLO provides that a licensee who is licensed to operate a 
money service at premises specified in the licence must not operate a money 
service at any premises other than those specified premises unless the CCE has, on 
an application of the licensee, added the new premises to the licence.  Section 38(8) 
of the AMLO provides that a person who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes 
section 38(1) commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of HK$50,000 
and to imprisonment for 6 months.  The CCE may also take disciplinary actions 
under section 43(1)(c) of the AMLO for contravention of section 38(1) of the AMLO. 
 
8.9 What is the consequence if a licensee fails to seek prior approval from the CCE for 
operating a money service at any particular premises? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.10 
 
 
 
 
Section 39(1) of the AMLO provides that a licensee who is not required to operate 
a money service at particular premises must not operate a money service at any 
particular premises unless the CCE has, on an application of the licensee, added the 
new premises to the licence.  Section 39(8) of the AMLO provides that a person 
who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes section 39(1) commits an offence 
and is liable on conviction to a fine of HK$50,000 and to imprisonment for 6 months.  
The CCE may also take disciplinary actions under section 43(1)(c) of the AMLO for 
contravention of section 39(1) of the AMLO. 
 
Is there any other consequence if a licensee fails to comply with sections 35(1), 
36(1), 37(1), 38(1), 39(1) or 39A(1) of the AMLO? 
Yes.  Apart from criminal sanction, a licensee who contravenes sections 35(1), 36(1), 
37(1), 38(1), 39(1) or 39A(1) of the AMLO may also be subject to disciplinary  and/or 
administrative sanctions such as suspension and revocation of licence. 
IX. Notification of changes in particulars 
 
9.1 Which kind of changes in particulars that a licensee needs to notify the CCE? 
 A licensee needs to notify the CCE the following changes by completing the 
Notification of Change in Particulars (Form 6): 
 
(a) 
Change in business / corporation name 
(b) 
Change in principal (correspondence) address 
(c) 
Change in contact information 
(d) 
Change in business premises information 
(e) 
Change in telephone or fax no. of business premises 
21 
 
(f) 
Change in information of other business being run in the business premises 
(g) 
Change in occupants of the particular premises which are situated in a 
mixed commercial and residential building (i.e. situated in domestic 
premises)   
(h) 
Change in particulars of sole proprietor / partners / directors / ultimate 
owners 
(i) 
Change in partners / directors / ultimate owners 
(j) 
Change in “Fit and Proper” status of sole proprietor / partner / director / 
ultimate owner 
(k) 
Change in bank account used for operating money service business 
(l) 
Change in local management office 
(m) Change in local place for storage of books and records 
(n) 
Change in CO or MLRO 
 
Licensee should be aware that some changes in particulars may result in a review 
of the validity of an MSO licence, for example, changes in the fit and proper status 
of sole proprietor/ partner/ director/ ultimate owner, etc 
 
9.2 When shall a licensee notify the CCE of the change? 
 For the changes in particulars mentioned in paragraph 9.1, the licensee must notify 
the CCE in writing (Form 6) of the changes within one month beginning on the date 
on which such change takes place. 
 
9.3 What is the consequence if a licensee fails to notify the CCE in writing of the 
change? 
 Section 40(1) of the AMLO provides that if there is any change in the particulars 
that are provided to the CCE in connection with a licensee’s application under 
section 30 or 31, the licensee must notify the CCE in writing of the change within 
one month beginning on the date on which the change takes place.  Section 40(4) 
provides that a licensee who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes section 40(1) 
commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of HK$50,000.  Apart from 
criminal sanction, a licensee who contravenes section 40(1) may also be subject to 
disciplinary and/or administrative sanctions such as suspension and revocation of 
licence. 
 
9.4 
Does a licensee need to notify the CCE if he or she intends to change the status of 
business or the nature of money service business? 
 
As far as the change of the legal entity is concerned, the licensee needs to submit a 
fresh licence application for the CCE to consider whether the fit and proper status 
of the legal entity concerned meet the eligibility criteria for grant of an MSO licence.   
 
If a licensee wishes to change the nature of money service business, e.g. money 
changing service to remittance service, or vice versa, the licensee is required to file 
a written submission with the CCE, including the updated Business Plan and AML 
22 
 
Policy as well as any relevant supporting documents deemed necessary, for a 
review of its fit and proper status for the provision of the proposed money service. 
 
X. Cessation of business 
 
10.1 Does a licensee need to notify the CCE if he or she intends to cease to operate a 
money service or to cease to operate a money service at any of the premises 
specified in the licence? 
 Yes, the licensee needs to notify the CCE of the cessation of business or the cessation 
of operating a money service at any specified premises. 
 
If a licensee operating a money service at particular premises wishes to make a 
change to operation of a money service without particular premises, the licensee 
needs to submit an application to notify the CCE of the cessation of its existing 
business and submit a new application to apply for a licence to operate a money 
service without particular premises. 
 
10.2 When shall a licensee notify the CCE of his or her intention of cessation of business?  
 The licensee must notify the CCE before the date of cessation (including expiry of 
licence) by completing the Notification of Cessation of Business (Form 7) of that 
intention and the date of cessation.  In addition, the licensee needs to return the 
valid or expired licence to the CCE for cancellation within 7 days beginning on the 
date of cessation or expiry as the case may be. 
 
10.3 If a licensee cancel his or her licence within its validity period, will the licensee get 
a refund of the whole or some of the fees paid? 
 No. 
 
10.4 What is the consequence if a licensee fails to notify the CCE in writing of the change? 
 Section 41(1) of the AMLO provides that if a licensee intends to cease to operate a 
money service or (if applicable) to cease to operate a money service at any of the 
premises specified in the licence with effect from a particular date, the licensee 
must -  
 
(a)  
before the date of cessation, notify the CCE in writing of that intention and 
that date of cessation; and 
(b) 
return the licence to the CCE  for cancellation or amendment within 7 days 
beginning on the date of cessation. 
 
Section 41(4) provides that a licensee who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes 
section 41(1) commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of HK$50,000.  
Such contravention will adversely affect the fitness and propriety of the person 
concerned to operate a money service or to be associated with the business of 
operating a money service.  The CCE may also take disciplinary and/or 
23 
 
administrative sanctions under the AMLO for the contravention. 
 
XI. Licensee’s Obligations 
 
11.1 What are the obligations of a licensee? 
 A licensee is obliged to comply with all the applicable provisions of the AMLO and 
guidelines issued by the CCE.  A non‐exhaustive list of obligations of a licensee is 
provided as follows:  
 
(a) 
A licensee must report on suspicious transactions; 
(b) 
A licensee must develop and maintain an effective AML Policy to mitigate 
ML/TF risks; 
(c) 
The individual, any partner, any director and ultimate owner in relation to 
a licensee must remain fit and proper at all times;  
(d) 
A licensee must secure the written consent of the occupants in premises 
that are situated in mixed commercial and residential building (i.e. 
situated in domestic premises) for an authorized person to conduct 
routine inspection; 
(e) 
A licensee who is licensed to operate a money service at premises 
specified in the licence must display the original of the licence in a 
conspicuous place at the specified premises; 
(f) 
A licensee must maintain a LPS; 
(g) 
Where a licensee operates a money service without particular premises, 
the licensee must maintain a LMO and ensure the LMO can serve as a 
point of contact for interfacing with C&ED; 
(h) 
A licensee must ensure at least one of the members of the senior 
management, i.e. sole‐proprietor, partner or director, having attended 
the Assessment; 
(i) 
A licensee must submit periodic return to the CCE in the form specified by 
the CCE in a timely manner; and 
(j) 
Where bank account(s) is used for operation of the money service 
business, the bank account must be in the name of the licensee’s 
company, the sole proprietor, partner, director or ultimate owner of the 
licensee. 
 
11.2 What return shall a licensee lodge to the CCE? 
 A licensee shall lodge a periodic return to the CCE within 2 weeks beginning from 
each half year unless specified by the CCE by notice in writing.  The periodic return 
must be submitted in the form and manner specified by the CCE.
  Any failure to 
submit a periodic return on time may result in the suspension and/or revocation of 
the licence. 
 
11.3 Why does the C&ED require a licensee to further submit “supplementary 
information form(s)”? 
24 
A licensee is required to notify the C&ED of the appointment of a CO and a MLRO 
to act respectively as the focal point for the oversight of compliance measures and 
the central reference point for reporting suspicious transactions as required by the 
AML Guideline. 
11.4 Why does the C&ED require the senior management of a licensee to attend the 
Assessment? 
To comply with relevant statutory and regulatory AML/CFT requirement on senior 
management oversight prescribed under the AMLO and guidelines issued by the 
CCE, the senior management of a licensee should have a clear understanding of 
ML/TF risks to which it is exposed and be capable of implementing effective 
AML/CFT Systems that can adequately manage the ML/TF risks identified.  
XII. Register of Licensees
12.1 What information will be provided in the Register of Licensees? 
The following information will be provided in the Register of Licensees: 
(a)
the name of every licensee; and
(b)
in respect of each licensee—
(i)
if the licensee is licensed to operate a money service at specified
premises, the address of every premises at which the licensee may
operate a money service; or
(ii) in any other case, the correspondence address of the licensee.
12.2 
Where can you inspect the register? 
The register is available for inspection by members of the public at the office of 
the C&ED at Units 402-403, 4/F, Centre Parc, 11 Sheung Yuet Road, Kowloon Bay, 
Kowloon and is accessible through the C&ED’s website at 
https://eservices.customs.gov.hk/MSOS/. 
XIII. Disciplinary actions
13.1 What disciplinary actions will be taken by the CCE? 
If a financial institution contravenes a specified provision as defined by section 5(11) 
of the AMLO, under section 21 (2) of the AMLO, the CCE may- 
(a)
publicly reprimand the financial institution;
(b)
order the financial institution to take, by a date specified by the relevant
authority, any action specified by the relevant authority for the purpose of
remedying the contravention; and
(c)
order the financial institution to pay a pecuniary penalty not exceeding the
amount that is the greater of—
(i) HK$10,000,000; or
(ii) 3 times the amount of the profit gained, or costs avoided, by the financial
25 
institution as a result of the contravention. 
If an MSO licensee commits an act referred to in section 43(1) of the AMLO, under 
section 43(2) of the AMLO, the CCE may‐ 
(a)
publicly reprimand the licensee;
(b)
order the licensee to take, by a date specified by the CCE, any action
specified by the CCE for the purpose of remedying the contravention; and
(c)
order the licensee to pay a pecuniary penalty not exceeding HK$1,000,000.
XIV. Fee schedule
Item 
Fee 
HK$ 
Application for the grant of a licence 
plus for each additional business premises 
plus for each person who is subject to the fit and proper person test 
3,810 
2,440 
 
Application for the renewal of a licence 
plus for each additional business premises 
plus for each person who is subject to the fit and proper person test 
910 
 
 
Application for an approval to become a licensee’s director/ ultimate 
owner/ partner 
 
For each person in 
relation to whom 
the application is 
made 
Application to add new business premises 
2,440 
For each new 
business premises 
Application to operate a money service at particular premises 
2,440 
For each business 
premises 
XV.
Enquiries
15.1 Where can you ask for further information? 
You may find more information about licensing related matters at the C&ED’s 
website at https://eservices.customs.gov.hk/MSOS/.  You can also make enquiry 
on licensing related matters to the department by the following ways: 
(a)
By phone at 3742 7742 (during office hours from Monday to
Friday except Public Holidays);
(b)
By post to the Money Service Supervision Bureau, Customs and Excise 
Department at Units 402-403, 4/F, Centre Parc, 11 Sheung Yuet 
Road,Kowloon Bay, Kowloon;
(c)
By fax to 3742 7758; or
(d)
By email to msoenquiry@customs.gov.hk 
945
410
945
945
26 
 
XVI. Checklist of supporting documents for application for an MSO Licence 
16.1 To facilitate the application for grant and renewal of an MSO licence, applicant is required to 
submit the following documents (stamped with the applicant’s company chop) together with 
the completed application form, i.e. Form 1 or 2, annex and supplementary information sheet 
to the Money Service Supervision Bureau of C&ED. 
16.2 The list below is not exhaustive.  With a view to determining the fitness and propriety of the 
applicant and the suitability of the premises in accordance with the licensing requirements, the 
C&ED may require the applicant to produce other supporting documents in processing the 
application. 
16.3 Checklist for submission of supporting documents for application for an MSO Licence 
2. Supporting Documents of Particulars of each premises  
Premises used 
for the 
operation of a 
Money Service 
 A copy of stamped tenancy agreement or record of ownership of the premises 
 Floor plan of the premises 
 Two 4R-sized photographs showing the exterior and interior of the premises 
 A copy of letter issued by the landlord to the applicant permitting the premises 
to be used for money service business 
 Copies of consent letters from every occupant of the premises (for mixed 
commercial and residential premises only) 
Local place for 
storage of 
books and 
records 
 A copy of stamped tenancy agreement or record of ownership of the premises 
 Floor plan of the premises 
 Two 4R-sized photographs showing the exterior and interior of the premises 
 A copy of letter issued by the landlord to the applicant permitting the premises 
to be used for local place for storage of books and records 
Local 
management 
office 
 A copy of stamped tenancy agreement or record of ownership of the premises 
 Floor plan of the premises 
 Two 4R-sized photographs showing the exterior and interior of the premises 
 A copy of valid Business Registration Certificate 
 A copy of letter issued by the landlord to the applicant permitting the premises 
to be used for local management office 
1. Supporting Documents of the Applicant’s Particulars  
Sole 
proprietorship 
  A copy of valid Business Registration Certificate 
  A copy of Extract of information on the Business Register 
Partnership 
  A copy of valid Business Registration Certificate 
  A copy of Extract of information on the Business Register 
Local company 
  A copy of valid Business Registration Certificate 
  A copy of Certificate of Incorporation 
 A copy of the latest Annual Return (Form NAR1) and all documents filed with the 
Companies Registry after filing of the latest Annual Return 
 
 
A copy of Incorporation Form - Form NNC1 (for company limited by shares) or 
Form NNC1G (for company not limited by shares) for new established company 
  Information of group structure and percentage of shareholdings of each group 
member 
 A copy of Memorandum and Articles of Association 
Non-Hong Kong 
company 
 A copy of valid Business Registration Certificate 
 A copy of Certificate of Registration of non-Hong Kong Company 
 
 
A copy of the latest Annual Return (Form NN3) and all documents filed with the 
Companies Registry after filing of the latest Annual Return 
 
 
A copy of Particulars of a non-Hong Kong Company Registered in Hong Kong 
(Form NN1) for new established company 
 
 
Information of group structure and percentage of shareholdings of each group 
member 
 A copy of Memorandum and Articles of Association 
27 
 
16.3 Checklist for submission of supporting documents for application for an MSO Licence 
(Continued) 
3.  Supporting Documents of Particulars of the sole proprietor and each individual partner / 
director / ultimate owner of the Applicant  
Hong Kong 
resident 
 Completed Fit and Proper Person Declaration Form 3A together with Appendices 
I & II 
 A copy of Hong Kong Identity Card 
Non-Hong Kong 
resident 
 Completed Fit and Proper Person Declaration Form 3A together with Appendices 
I & II 
 A copy of the Bio-data page of the Travel Document 
4. Supporting Documents of Particulars of each corporate partner / director of the Applicant  
Local company 
 Completed Fit and Proper Person Declaration Form 3B 
 A copy of valid Business Registration Certificate 
 A copy of Certificate of Incorporation 
 A copy of Memorandum and Articles of Association 
Non-Hong Kong 
company 
 Completed Fit and Proper Person Declaration Form 3B 
 A copy of valid Business Registration Certificate 
 A copy of Certificate of Registration of non-Hong Kong Company 
 A copy of Memorandum and Articles of Association 
Corporation not 
registered in 
Hong Kong 
 Completed Fit and Proper Person Declaration Form 3B 
 
 
A copy of the Certificate of Incorporation or its equivalent certified in accordance 
with reg. 3 of the Companies (Forms) Regulations, Chapter 32B 
5. Authorization letter 
Partner 
 A copy of the authorization letter signed by all partners 
Corporation 
 A copy of the authorization letter signed by the Board of Directors 
6. Other requisite documents as specified in Licensing Guide  
 
 Business Plan endorsed by sole proprietor / each individual partner / director / 
ultimate owner 
 
 
Anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing policy endorsed by sole 
proprietor / each individual partner / director / ultimate owner 
 A copy of agreement / contract with each local and/or foreign third party 
involved in the process of money service 
 A copy of Hong Kong Identity Card of CO and MLRO 
 A copy of valid employment contracts for CO and MLRO 
 A copy of residential address proof of CO and MLRO, e.g. utility bills, bank 
statement, issued within the last three months from the application date 
 Proof of bank account ownership issued by bank concerned, e.g. a copy of 
statement of the bank account held by the applicant for money service business 
 An acknowledgement from bank that the bank account held by the applicant is 
used for operating money service business 
 
