           CUSTOMS AND EXCISE 
         DEPARTMENT 
Hong Kong Customs & Excise
Guideline on Criteria for 
Determining Fitness and Propriety 
For the grant of a licence under section 30, in Part 5, of the 
Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorist Financing  
Ordinance, Chapter 615 
April 2018 
Guideline for Determining Whether an Applicant for a Licence to 
Operate a Money Service is a Fit and Proper Person 
The Guideline sets out the criteria which will be followed by 
the 
Commissioner 
of 
Customs 
and 
Excise 
(‘CCE’) 
in 
determining whether the applicant for a licence to operate a 
money service (‘applicant’) is a fit and proper person and 
to outline the considerations, which the CCE will have regard to 
in considering the grant of a licence to operate a money service 
(‘licence’). 
Introduction 
1. Section 30(3)(a), in Part 5, of the Anti-Money Laundering and
Counter-Terrorist 
Financing 
Ordinance, 
Chapter 615 (‘AMLO’)
provides that the CCE may grant a licence to an applicant only if he is
satisfied that the individual/each partner/each director/ultimate owner
is a fit and proper person to operate a money service/to be associated
with the business of operating a money service.
2. Section 30(4), in Part 5, of the AMLO details the matters the CCE must
have regard to in determining whether an applicant is a fit and proper
person.  In addition to the matters he must have regard to, the CCE may
take into account any other matter he considers relevant.
3. Whilst an applicant falling within section 30(4) will be subject to
scrutiny as to his fitness and propriety to operate a money service, the
CCE will have regard to the facts and circumstances of each individual
applicant before determining whether he/she is a fit and proper person.
Application of the Guideline 
4.
The Guideline applies to every applicant for a licence under Section 30 
of the AMLO. The Guideline is applicable to both the applicant for a 
licence as well as to the person who will hold the licence.
1
Criteria for Determining Fitness and Propriety 
5.
In assessing an applicant’s fitness and propriety, the CCE will take
into account the following factors, which will be considered in the
context of all the facts and circumstances of each individual case:
a. Whether the person has failed to comply with any requirement
imposed under the AMLO or any regulation made by the CCE.
b. Whether the person, being an individual, is an undischarged
bankrupt or is the subject of any bankruptcy proceedings under the
Bankruptcy Ordinance.
c. Whether the person, being a corporation, is in the course of being
wound-up or where a receiver, or such other person having the
powers and duties of a receiver, has been appointed in relation to or
in respect of any property of the corporation.
d. Whether the person has failed to comply with any conditions
imposed by the CCE on the licence.
e. Whether the person has been convicted of a criminal offence which
is not listed in section 30(4)(a) and (b), in Part 5, of the AMLO, but
which has a significant and negative bearing on his/her honesty,
integrity and reliability.
6.
The Guideline provides general guidance and are not intended to be 
exhaustive or comprehensive.  In assessing the fitness and propriety of 
an applicant, each case will be considered on its own merits, taking 
into account all relevant factors including, but not limited to, the 
criteria set out in the AMLO and paragraph 5.
7.
For avoidance of doubt, the Guideline is advisory.   An applicant for a 
licence to operate a money service or a licensee should seek legal 
advice where necessary if he/she has concerns about the AMLO and 
the application of its provisions to him/her.
2
3
Review of the Guideline 
8.
The Guideline will be kept under review and may be revised from 
time to time as considered appropriate.
April 2018 
Commissioner of Customs and Excise 
