 
           CUSTOMS AND EXCISE  
            DEPARTMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Supplementary Guideline 
 on Criteria for Determining 
 Fitness and Propriety 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
January 2020 
 
 
 
1
Supplementary Guideline for Determining Whether an Applicant for 
a Licence to Operate a Money Service or a Licensee is a  
Fit and Proper Person 
 
Section 30(4), in Part 5, of the Anti-Money Laundering and 
Counter-Terrorist Financing Ordinance, Chapter 615 (‘AMLO’) details the 
matters, in addition to any other matter that the Commissioner of Customs 
and Excise (‘CCE’) considers relevant, the CCE must have regard to in 
determining whether an applicant for a licence to operate a money service 
(‘applicant’) or a licensee is a fit and proper person in considering the grant 
of a licence to operate a money service (‘licence’).  Notwithstanding that 
the authority to have regard to any other matter that the CCE considers 
relevant has all along been exercised, this Supplementary Guideline aims 
to provide examples to further understanding of any applicant in this 
respect.  
 
This Supplementary Guideline must be read in conjunction with the 
Guideline on Criteria for Determining Fitness and Propriety for 
determining whether an applicant for a licence to operate a money service 
or a licensee is a fit and proper person. 
 
 
Introduction 
  
1. Section 30(3)(a), in Part 5, of the AMLO  provides that the CCE may 
grant a licence to an applicant only if he is satisfied that the 
individual/each partner/each director/ultimate owner is a fit and proper 
person to operate a money service/to be associated with the business of 
operating a money service. 
 
2. Section 30(4), in Part 5, of the AMLO details the matters the CCE must 
have regard to in determining whether an applicant is a fit and proper 
person.  In addition to the matters he must have regard to, the CCE may 
take into account any other matter he considers relevant.   
 
3. Whilst an applicant falling within section 30(4) will be subject to 
scrutiny as to his fitness and propriety to operate a money service, the 
 
 
2
CCE will have regard to the facts and circumstances of each individual 
applicant before determining whether he/she is a fit and proper person. 
 
4.  Section 34, in Part 5, of the AMLO provides that the CCE may suspend 
or revoke a licence where the CCE is of the opinion that any of the 
individual/partner/director/ultimate owner in relation to the licence is 
no longer a fit and proper person to operate a money service/to be 
associated with the business of operating a money service. 
 
 
Application of the Guideline 
 
5. The Guideline applies to every applicant for a licence under section 30 
and renewal of a licence under section 31 of the AMLO, as well as 
licensed money service operators (i.e. licensees) which or who must 
satisfy and continue to satisfy after the grant of licence that they are fit 
and proper persons to be so licensed.  It follows that failure of any 
licensees to meet the fit and proper criteria may reflect adversely on 
the fit and proper person status and would be a ground for suspension 
or revocation of the licence by virtue of section 34, in Part 5, of the 
AMLO.   For the purpose of this Guideline, unless otherwise specified, 
a reference to the “person” herein may mean an applicant for the grant 
or renewal of a licence or a licensee which includes an individual and a 
corporation as the case may be. 
 
 
Examples of matters the CCE considers relevant 
 
6. The CCE takes into account the following matters which are examples 
regarded as any other matter that the CCE considers relevant in 
determining whether an applicant or a licensee is a fit and proper 
person in considering the grant of a licence: 
 
a. Whether the person has failed to comply with any conditions 
imposed by the CCE on the licence. 
 
b. Whether the person has any record of non-compliance with the 
AMLO or relevant regulation, which resulted in the taking of 
 
 
3
administrative action, prosecution, issue of written warning or has 
been disciplined by the CCE for the non-compliance. 
 
c. Whether the person is in compliance with guidelines promulgated 
for money service operators in the regulatory regime, such as the 
Licensing Guide and the Guideline on Anti-Money Laundering and 
Counter-Financing of Terrorism issued for Money Service 
Operators. 
 
d. Whether the person has the ability to carry out the money service 
business competently, honestly and fairly and, in a manner which is 
not detrimental, or likely to be detrimental, to the interests of the 
customers or members of the public. Examples are the 
contravention of any law designed for consumer protection, or the 
licensee has been the subject of any complaint made reasonably 
and in good faith relating to the licensee’s conduct of carrying on 
the business. 
 
e. Whether the person has been the subject of any proceedings of a 
criminal or disciplinary nature or has been notified of any potential 
proceedings or of any investigation which might lead to those 
proceedings under any law in any jurisdiction. 
 
f. Whether the person has genuine intention and readiness to carry on 
the money service business to which it was proposed in the licence 
application.   Examples are the person provided nil money service 
for a prolonged period after the grant of licence. 
 
g. Whether the person has established effective anti-money 
laundering and counter-financing of terrorism (‘AML/CFT’) 
systems to ensure compliance with all applicable requirements 
under the money service operator regulatory regime.  Examples are 
the person must have a competent compliance officer of a sufficient 
level of seniority and authority within the licensee to oversee the 
establishment and maintenance of the company’s AML/CFT 
systems.   
 
h. Whether the person is equipped with the skills, knowledge, 
 
 
4
experience and professionalism necessary to perform the 
business’s functions efficiently and effectively.  In making such as 
assessment, the person is generally expected to be able to display 
an understanding of the statutory and regulatory requirements that 
apply to the business.   Examples are a person who did not take or 
failed to pass the relevant test if any conducted by the Customs and 
Excise Department (‘C&ED’) in the course of processing licence 
application. 
 
i. Whether the person has been untruthful or provided false or 
misleading information or omitted material information to the CCE 
or been uncooperative with the C&ED in the performance of a 
function under the AMLO. 
 
j. Whether the person has failed to establish organizational structure 
and personnel that comply with the relevant legislative or 
regulatory requirements. 
 
k. Whether the person has failed to provide the necessary 
infrastructure and internal control systems to manage risk 
effectively, avoid conflict of interest and provide proper audit trail. 
 
l. Whether the person has been convicted of a criminal offence which 
is not listed in section 30(4)(a) and (b), in Part 5, of the AMLO, but 
which has a significant and negative bearing on his/her honesty, 
integrity and reliability.  Examples are offences relating to fraud, 
dishonesty and malpractice. 
 
m. Whether the person is the subject of unresolved criminal charges in 
Hong Kong or elsewhere. 
 
n. Whether the person has been censured, disciplined or publicly 
criticized by any regulatory authority or professional body in Hong 
Kong or elsewhere. 
 
o. Whether the person has been refused or restricted from the right to 
carry on any trade, business or profession for which a specific 
licence, registration or other authorization is required by law in 
 
 
5
Hong Kong or elsewhere. 
 
p. Whether the person has been disqualified by a court of competent 
jurisdiction from being a director.  
 
q. Whether the person has financial integrity to ensure that the person 
has adequate financial resources for the nature and scale of its 
operations, and the financial position or solvency of the person 
would not undermine the interest of the customers and the members 
of the public.  Examples are the person has failed to satisfy any 
judgment debt under a court order or made any compromise or 
arrangement with his creditors. 
 
r. The state of affairs of any other business which the person carries 
on, proposes to carry on or has any business relationship.  
Examples are the other business which exposes the person to the 
potential risk of money laundering or affects adversely the person’s 
financial integrity. 
 
7. 
The Supplementary Guideline provides additional guidance in 
general and are not intended to be exhaustive or comprehensive. 
Without limiting the generality of section 30(4), in Part 5, of the 
AMLO, the criteria set out in paragraph 6 above are likely to give rise 
to concerns about the fitness and properness of a person to be licensed 
or who has been licensed. Failure to comply with individual elements 
may not result in the CCE not being satisfied that a person is fit and 
proper. In assessing the fitness and propriety of a person, each case 
will be considered on its own merits, taking into account all relevant 
factors including, but not limited to, the criteria set out in the AMLO 
and paragraph 6 above. 
 
8. 
For avoidance of doubt, the Supplementary Guideline is advisory. An 
applicant for a licence to operate a money service or a licensee should 
seek legal advice where necessary if he/she has concerns about the 
AMLO and the application of its provisions to him/her.  
 
 
 
 
 
6
Review of the Supplementary Guideline 
 
9. 
The Supplementary Guideline will be kept under review and may be 
updated from time to time as considered appropriate. 
   
 
 
January 2020 
Commissioner of Customs and Excise 
 
