1 
Ver.(12/2019) 
 
                   Guidelines for Submission of Business Plan 
 
          by Applicant for Money Service Operator Licence/Licensee 
 
 
These guidelines set out key elements that should be included in the business plan so as to 
allow the Money Service Supervision Bureau (“MSSB”) to have a comprehensive 
understanding of the applicant’s proposed money service business and its mode of operation.   
At a minimum, the applicant should include in the business plan the following items set out in 
the table below.   
 
The business plan should ensure that the applicant pays attention to both the broad 
operational and compliance objectives of the new business.  The MSSB is obliged to look 
into the applicant’s entire business operation from the anti-money laundering and 
counter-terrorist financing (“AML/CFT”) perspective.  As such, it is important that the 
applicant will provide all necessary information to MSSB for examination and has the 
necessary resources to execute the business plan and comply with both the statutory and 
regulatory requirements.  Failure to provide this information may delay or hinder the 
processing of your application.    In addition, the applicant is required to confirm in writing in 
the business plan that he/she is well aware of and will comply with the statutory requirement 
that if there is any change in the particulars that are provided to the Commissioner of 
Customs and Excise (“Commissioner”) for the grant or renewal of money service operator 
(“MSO”) licence, the licensee must notify the Commissioner in writing of change within one 
month beginning on the date on which the change takes place. 
 
 
Item 
No. 
Required 
information 
Detail of the required information 
1 
Company name 
Provide information on the company name, business name, 
website address, business logo and trademark that will be 
used to promote the money service business.  
 
2 
Company history  
Provide information on the applicant’s history, the source of 
capital and whether the applicant is associated with or 
controlled by any entities or group company.  
 
3 
Key executives of 
senior 
management  
Provide information on the key executives of the senior 
management including their nationality, employment 
history, qualification and education level. 
  
2 
Ver.(12/2019) 
 
4 
Location of key 
management 
 
Location of senior management (where key business 
decision is made). 
 
If there is any back-end office in or outside Hong Kong, 
elaborate the function/purpose of this office and its 
whereabouts. 
 
5 
Customers and 
location of 
customers 
 
Provide information on the potential and expected 
customers including their geographical location and 
nationality, mode of contacting with the customers etc.  
6 
Business 
operation in Hong 
Kong and its key 
objective 
 
Elaborate in detail on what business operation will take 
place in Hong Kong and the reason of obtaining a licence 
locally.  The business operation should detail the entire 
transaction process such as placing the transaction order, 
handling and processing of order, movement of funds, 
compliance function, and accounting and record keeping 
function, etc. 
 
7 
Delivery channels 
of product and 
service offered 
Provide information on the type of product and service to be 
offered and the timeline of launching these product and 
service. 
 
Elaborate in detail on how each type of product and service 
are carried out and the entire delivery channel including 
processing of orders and fund flows going through each 
foreign agent or foreign MSO in different jurisdictions.    
 
If foreign agents or foreign MSOs are used to transfer or 
receive funds, please provide information on all agents and 
overseas MSOs together with the service agreement. 
 
Elaborate the measures taken to protect customer funds 
against risk of loss in the event of nonfulfillment of other 
agent or MSO both inside and outside Hong Kong. 
 
8 
Bank account 
Provide information of any bank accounts used for the 
business, such as account number and owner of the bank 
account (No third party bank account is allowed), etc. 
 
Note:  
If the applicant considers there is no need to open bank 
account for the business, the applicant is required to provide 
details on how will the company provide money service 
without bank account. 
 
9 
Profitability and 
financial 
information of the 
business 
 
Provide information on the expected profit margin and 
turnover on each type of product and service for the next 
two years and the running capital for the daily operation of 
the business   
 
 
3 
Ver.(12/2019) 
 
10 
 
Organizational 
structure 
  
Organization of the group of companies in Hong Kong  
 
Elaborate the group of companies (include the parent 
company, local branches and subsidiaries), their locations 
and respective functions.   Attach an organizational chart of 
the group of companies and provide a brief description and 
business carried out by each entity within the group.   
 
Organization of the international group of companies 
outside Hong Kong 
 
Elaborate the international group of companies to which the 
applicant belongs. Attach an organizational chart of the 
international group of companies and provide a brief 
description and business carried out by each entity within 
the group. 
 
11 
Local business 
premises 
If the applicant’s business premises are shared by “other 
businesses” (including businesses not belong to the 
applicant), elaborate the nature of the “other businesses”. 
  
Elaborate whether the “other businesses” in the applicant’s 
business premises are also owned by the applicant/director 
or partner or staff of the applicant. 
 
Elaborate whether the “other businesses” in the applicant’s 
business premise have any business relationships with the 
applicant.  If yes, elaborate the nature of the business 
relationships.  
 
12 
Local human 
resources 
Management team of the applicant 
 
Elaborate the composition of the management team.  Total 
number of the members, their position, roles and 
responsibilities (e.g. compliance functions, reporting of 
suspicious transactions), full time/part time, the reporting 
lines. 
 
Employee of the applicant 
 
Elaborate the composition of the employees.  Total number 
of employees, their position, roles and responsibilities (e.g. 
compliance functions, reporting of suspicious transactions), 
full time/part time, the reporting lines. 
 
13 
Use of outsourced 
services 
Provide the name and nature of any outsourced services 
used by the applicant for AML/CFT purpose.   
 
For example, external audit function, any specified 
intermediary. 
 
14 
Computerized / 
screening systems 
Elaborate the computerized systems and other automation 
systems used in the business.   
4 
Ver.(12/2019) 
 
 
For example, name of the commercial service or database 
provider for automated AML solution and sanction 
screening, etc. 
 
15 
Acting as agent or 
principal 
If the applicant also acts as an agent for “other local MSO” 
and/or “overseas company/business entity”, provide the 
name of the “other local MSO” and/or the “overseas 
company / business entity”.  Elaborate the functions of 
acting as agent by the applicant. 
 
If the applicant also acts as a principal for “other local 
MSO” and/or “overseas company/business entity”, provide 
the name of the “other local MSO” and/or “overseas 
company / business entity”.  Elaborate the functions of 
acting as principal by the applicant. 
 
16 
Other types of 
business 
relationships 
If the applicant’s business involves the use of other third 
party’s payment platform or network, e.g. digital wallet, 
etc., explain the role of the payment platform / network in 
the applicant’s business. 
 
If the applicant’s business involves the activities of 
local/cross-boundary physical cash movement, provide the 
name of the company/person in relation to such activities. 
 
17 
Subject to other 
supervision 
Whether the applicant’s local business or international 
group of companies to which the applicant belongs is also 
subject to other type of supervision (e.g. holding licence 
granted by other regulator/competent authority).  If yes, 
provide the name of the other regulator/competent 
authority. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
