1 
Ver. (12/2019) 
 
Guidelines for Submission of AML/CFT Policy 
 
by Applicant for Money Service Operator Licence/Licensee 
 
These guidelines aim to provide practical guidance to assist applicants to draw up their own 
policies, procedures and controls (collectively known as “policy”) in the relevant operational 
areas, taking into consideration of their proposed business plan and special circumstances so 
as to meet the relevant anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing (“AML/CFT”) 
statutory and regulatory requirements. 
 
Please note that each applicant has its unique way of conducting money service business 
including products and services offered, distribution channels, organizational structure, 
customer base and geographical risks, etc.   It is important for applicant to complete a self 
AML/CFT risk assessment and put in place a set of policy to mitigate the risks of money 
laundering and terrorist financing (“ML/TF”).  The policy must be based on the applicant’s 
risk assessment and meet its particular business risk profile.  
 
The items tabulated below are by no mean exhaustive and applicant must consider any other 
important issues that are peculiar to its business model and to facilitate the formulation of 
practical and effective policy.  
 
 
Item 
No. 
Required 
information 
Detail of the required information 
1 
 
Introduction to 
the Policy 
 
 
The applicant (Name) must take all reasonable measures to 
ensure that proper safeguards exist to prevent a 
contravention of any requirement under Part 2 or 3 of 
Schedule 
2 
to 
the 
Anti-Money 
Laundering 
and 
Counter-Terrorist Financing Ordinance (“AMLO”) and to 
mitigate ML/TF risks. 
 
 
The applicant is required by section 19(3) of the AMLO to 
establish and maintain effective procedures not inconsistent 
with the AMLO for the purpose of carrying out the duties 
under sections 3, 4, 5, 9, 10 and 15 of Schedule 2. 
 
 
The applicant adopts a risk-based approach in the design 
and implementation of the AML/CFT policies with a view 
to managing and mitigating ML/TF risks. 
 
 
Qualified Compliance Officer (Name) and Money 
Laundering Reporting Officers (Name) are employed to 
implement appropriate AML/CFT policies and procedures 
including suspicious transaction report.  The line of 
reporting should be clearly stated. 
 
2 
Ver. (12/2019) 
 
2 
AML/CFT 
Framework in 
Hong Kong 
Elaborate the relevant AML/CFT framework 
 
 
What is Money Laundering (“ML”), Terrorist Financing 
(“TF”) and Proliferation Financing (“PF”). 
 
 
State the legal obligations of money service operator 
(“MSO”) in respect of ML, TF and PF under different 
legislation. 
 
 
Why is it important to have an AML/CFT system for the 
applicant’s business. 
 
 
What are the three stages of ML. 
 
 
Typical signs or indicators for ML, TF and PF. 
 
 
What is Suspicious Transaction Report (“STR”) and the 
applicant’s legal obligations. 
 
 
Actions required by applicant if a suspicion arises. 
 
 
Procedure of handling STR and timing. 
 
 
What is tipping off and the applicant’s legal obligations. 
 
3 
Customer Due 
Diligence 
(CDD) 
Elaborate the relevant workflow and AML/CFT procedures 
 
 
What is CDD. 
 
 
Statutory obligations of CDD requirement. 
 
 
State company policy on different transaction thresholds for 
carrying CDD including treatment of one-off transaction 
for walk-in customer.   
 
 
What is Customer Risk Assessment (“CRA”) and the 
applicant’s legal obligation. 
 
 
Procedures for carrying out the CRA.  
 
 
Regular CDD and its application within the company 
1. MSO should indicate how the paragraphs 4.2.1- 4.2.6 of 
the Guideline on AML/CFT issued for MSOs (“AML 
Guideline”) will be complied with and how linked 
transactions will be dealt with. 
 
 
Simplified Due Diligence (“SDD”) and its application 
within the company. 
 
 
Enhanced Due Diligence (“EDD”) and its application 
within the company. 
1. What is Politically Exposed Person (“PEP”) 
2. What is the MSO’s policy on Domestic, Foreign and 
International Organization PEPs 
3 
Ver. (12/2019) 
 
3. Non-face-to-face channel 
4. High risk countries (e.g. countries identified by the 
Financial Action Task Force) 
5. Any situation that is assessed to be high risk by the 
applicant (e.g. remit HK$200,000 in cash to Mainland 
by a walk-in customer) 
 
 
What are Source of Funds(“SOF”) and Source of Wealth 
(“SOW”). 
 
 
How SOF and SOW measures are incorporated into the 
applicant’s EDD process. 
 
 
Funding provided by third party requires the applicant to 
identify and verify its ultimate beneficial owner including 
legal person, partnership, trust and other legal arrangement 
(procedures and steps taken by the applicant to comply with 
these requirements). 
 
 
What are the consequences of failure to carry out CDD 
measures. 
 
 
How the applicant obtains information on the purpose and 
intended nature of the business relationship as part of the 
company’s CDD process). 
 
 
On-going Monitoring 
1. Customer monitoring 
2. Transaction monitoring 
What is a “normal” level of business activity and what 
is not? Is the transaction consistent with the MSO’s 
knowledge of the customer and profile? 
 
 
Record keeping 
1. Elaborate on how CDD, transaction, screening and 
CRA records will be recorded and kept.  
2. Whether the system can retrieve those records within a 
reasonable timeframe say one day. 
4 
Products & 
Services 
 
Money changing and/or remittance services. 
5 
Distribution 
Channels 
Elaborate the distribution channels.  For example, counter 
service, internet or mobile etc.  Percentage of face-to-face and 
non-face-to-face transactions. 
 
6 
Type of 
currencies 
Elaborate the main types of currencies provided in the money 
service business. 
 
7 
Target 
customers 
Elaborate the target customers in the money service business. 
8 
Target 
jurisdictions for 
Elaborate the target jurisdictions for “inward remittance 
transaction” and “outward remittance transaction”. 
4 
Ver. (12/2019) 
 
remittance 
 
9 
Revenue model 
Elaboration of the way by which the applicant makes profit 
from the business.   
 
For example, profit is made from a certain percentage of each 
transaction, handling charge, etc.  
 
10 
Elaboration of 
the “payment 
systems” and 
“AML/CFT 
procedures”  
in remittance 
transaction  
 
(i.e. s.13 in 
Schedule 2 to 
the AMLO) 
and/or wire 
transfer (i.e. 
s.12 in Schedule 
2 to the AMLO) 
Elaborate the relevant workflow and AML/CFT procedures, 
which should include, among others: 
 
 the relevant payment system, fund flow, settlement system 
(by bank transfer, cash etc.) 
 
 procedures for taking other reasonable measures in 
mitigation of ML/TF risks, such as identifying the source of 
funds, identity and legality of any counterparts/related 
parties in processing the transaction. 
 
 procedures for monitoring the company’s overseas branch 
and agent’s compliance with the AML/CFT policy. 
 
11 
AML/CFT 
screening 
process 
Elaborate the procedures in conducting sanctions screening.   
 
For example, screening against customers for mitigating the 
risks of (a) targeted financial sanctions (“TFS”) related to 
terrorism and TF, (b) TFS related to proliferation, and (c) PEP. 
 
12 
Risk assessment 
procedures 
Elaborate the risk assessment methodology of the applicant for 
AML/CFT purpose.   
 
For example, relevant risk factors, procedures to conduct risk 
assessment of customer, products and services, etc. 
 
13 
Compliance 
function 
Elaborate the AML/CFT compliance function of the applicant.   
 
For example, management oversight, the roles of compliance 
department, any relevant committee/panel, the duties and 
responsibilities of compliance officer and compliance staff. 
 
14 
Reporting of 
suspicious 
transaction 
Elaborate the procedures of the company in the process of 
reporting suspicious transaction, relevant reporting lines, and 
the roles of money laundering reporting officer and relevant 
staff. 
 
15 
AML/CFT 
audit function 
Elaborate the AML/CFT audit function of the applicant to 
ensure their AML/CFT systems/programmes are commensurate 
with the up-to-date business risk profile and the AML/CFT 
circumstances.  
 
For example, by internal/external audit function, relevant policy 
and procedures, etc. 
 
5 
Ver. (12/2019) 
 
 
16 
Training 
programme 
 
Elaborate the training programme of the company. 
 
 
Staff must be trained in what they need to do to carry out 
their particular duties with respect to AML/CFT. 
 
 
Scope of training to be provided 
1. Staff’s personal statutory obligations and consequence 
for failure to report STR 
2. statutory obligations on the MSO and the consequence 
of breaches of the relevant legislation 
3. the MSO’s policies and procedures relating to 
AML/CFT 
4. any new and emerging techniques, methods and trends 
in ML/TF that are needed by the staff to carry out their 
particular duties 
5. other issues set out in para. 9.7 of the AML Guideline 
 
 
MSO will monitor the effectiveness of training by testing 
their staff’s understanding on the above issues and their 
ability to recognize suspicious transactions. 
 
 
MSO will monitor and maintain records of who have been 
trained, when the staff received the training and type of 
training provided.    
 
17 
Other internal 
controls 
systems 
If there are other internal controls systems for AML/CFT 
purpose, elaborate the relevant policies and procedures. 
 
18 
Other 
information 
Applicant is advised to provide/attach other information to 
facilitate the elaboration of the business plan and AML policy, 
such as the company’s internal forms for reporting suspicious 
transactions, 
customer 
on-boarding, 
account 
opening, 
conducting CRA, brochures, and publications, etc. 
 
19 
Cooperation 
with regulator 
and law 
enforcement 
agencies 
The applicant will cooperate with the Customs & Excise 
Department about their routine inspection or investigation.  This 
company will also cooperate with other law enforcement 
agencies wherever required under the laws of Hong Kong.   
 
The applicant will implement the above AML/CFT policy to 
mitigate the ML and TF risks. 
 
 
