 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Disciplinary Action Guideline 
 
on Imposition of Pecuniary Penalty 
 
Published under section 45(1), in Part 5, of the Anti-Money 
Laundering and Counter-Terrorist Financing Ordinance, 
Chapter 615 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
April 2018 
CUSTOMS AND EXCISE 
DEPARTMENT 
 
 
1
Disciplinary Action Guideline on Imposition of Pecuniary Penalty 
 
Introduction 
  
1. Under 
section 
43 
of 
the 
Anti-Money 
Laundering 
and 
Counter-Terrorist Financing Ordinance Chapter 615 (“AMLO”), the 
Commissioner of Customs and Excise (“CCE”) may, amongst other 
disciplinary actions, impose a pecuniary penalty on a person licensed 
to operate a money service (“the licensee”), if the licensee 
contravenes- 
(a) any regulation made under section 51 of the AMLO; 
(b) any of the conditions of the licensee’s licence; or 
(c) sections 35(1), 36(1), 37(1), 38(1), 39(1), 39A(1), 40(1), or 
41(1) of the AMLO. 
 
2. Section 45(1) of the AMLO requires the CCE to publish guidelines to 
indicate the manner in which he proposes to exercise the power to 
impose a pecuniary penalty under section 43(2)(c), and section 45(2) 
requires the CCE to have regard to such guidelines in exercising such 
power. 
 
3. This Guideline is published under section 45(1) of the AMLO to 
indicate the manner in which the CCE will exercise the power 
conferred by section 43(2)(c).  The CCE will have regard to this 
Guideline when exercising the power conferred by section 43(2)(c) of 
the AMLO. 
 
4.  As a matter of policy, the CCE will usually publicise all his decisions 
to impose pecuniary penalty. 
 
Factors to be considered by CCE when proposing to exercise the 
power 
 
5. When proposing to exercise the power to impose a pecuniary penalty 
and the amount, the CCE will consider all of the circumstances of the 
particular case, as well as any of the factors set out below that are 
relevant. 
 
 
 
2
6. Any pecuniary penalty imposed by the CCE is intended to act as a 
deterrent to the licensee concerned and to act as a general deterrent to 
other licensees. 
 
7. A pecuniary penalty should not have the likely effect of putting the 
licensee concerned in financial jeopardy. In considering this factor, 
the CCE will take into account the size and financial resources of the 
licensee. 
 
8. The more serious the contravention, the greater the likelihood that the 
CCE will impose a pecuniary penalty and that the amount of the 
penalty will reflect the gravity of the contravention. 
 
9. In determining the seriousness of a contravention, the CCE will 
consider all of the circumstances of the case and take into account the 
factors set out below that are relevant.  The factors listed below are 
not exhaustive.  Some of them may not be applicable in a particular 
case and there may be other factors which are relevant but are not 
listed below. 
 
(a) The nature, seriousness and impact of the contravention, including: 
 
(i) 
whether the contravention is intentional or results from 
recklessness or negligence - a contravention resulting from 
negligence or conduct which only results in a technical breach 
is generally regarded as less serious; 
(ii) 
the duration and frequency of the contraventions; 
(iii) whether the contravention is potentially damaging or 
detrimental to the integrity of the operation of money services 
in Hong Kong or the reputation of Hong Kong as an 
international financial centre; 
(iv) 
whether the contravention caused or had the potential to cause 
loss to, or imposed or had the potential to impose costs on, any 
other person; 
(v) 
whether the contravention was committed by the licensee alone 
or by him as part of a group and the role played by the licensee 
in that group; 
(vi) 
whether the contravention reveals serious or systemic 
 
 
3
weaknesses in the management system or internal controls in 
respect of the customer due diligence and record-keeping 
procedures relating to all or part of a licensee’s business; 
(vii) whether the contravention was indicative of a pattern resulting 
in contraventions; 
(viii) whether there are a number of smaller issues, which 
individually may not justify a pecuniary penalty, but which do 
so when taken collectively; and 
(ix) 
the nature and extent of any financial crime facilitated, 
occasioned or otherwise attributable to the contravention. 
 
(b) The conduct of the licensee after the contravention, including: 
 
(i) 
whether the licensee attempted to conceal its contravention(s); 
(ii) 
any remedial steps taken since the contravention(s) or the 
possible contravention was identified, and any action taken by 
the licensee against those involved and any steps taken by the 
licensee to prevent similar contraventions occurring in future; 
(iii) the degree of cooperation with the CCE, other relevant 
authorities and/or law enforcement agencies during the 
investigation into the contravention(s); and 
(iv) 
the likelihood that the licensee will commit the same type of 
contravention in the future if no or a lighter penalty is imposed. 
 
(c) The previous disciplinary record and compliance history of the 
licensee, including: 
 
(i) 
the relevant previous disciplinary record of the licensee, 
including any previous similar contraventions; 
(ii) 
whether the licensee has previously undertaken not to engage 
in the particular conduct that resulted in the contravention; and 
(iii) any punishment imposed or regulatory action taken or likely to 
be taken by other relevant authorities in respect of the same 
incident. 
 
(d) Other relevant factors, including:  
 
(i) 
whether the CCE has issued any guidelines in relation to the 
 
 
4
conduct in question - generally the CCE will not take 
disciplinary action against a licensee for conduct that is in line 
with guidance which was current at the time of the conduct in 
question; 
(ii) 
what action the CCE and/or other relevant authorities have 
taken in previous similar cases - in general similar cases should 
be treated in a consistent manner;  
(iii) the amount of any benefit gained or costs avoided by the 
licensee or any of its directors or employees as a result of the 
contravention; and 
(iv) 
any mitigating factors, whether the licensee has promptly, 
effectively and completely brought the contravention or 
possible contravention to the attention of the CCE. 
 
 
April 2018 
Commissioner of Customs and Excise 
