 
CUSTOMS AND EXCISE 
DEPARTMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Disciplinary Fining Guideline 
 
Published under section 23(1) in Part 4 of the Anti-Money 
Laundering and Counter-Terrorist Financing Ordinance, 
Chapter 615 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
May 2018 
1 
 
 
 
Disciplinary Fining Guideline 
 
Introduction 
 
1. Under 
section 
21 of 
the 
Anti-Money 
Laundering 
and 
Counter-Terrorist Financing Ordinance (‘AMLO’), Chapter 615, the 
Commissioner of Customs and Excise (‘CCE’) may impose a 
pecuniary penalty either on its own or together with other disciplinary 
sanctions on a money service operator (‘MSO’) if the MSO 
contravenes a specified provision as defined by section 5(11) of the 
AMLO. Section 23(1) of the AMLO requires the CCE to publish 
guidelines to indicate the manner in which he proposes to exercise  
the  power  to  impose  a  pecuniary  penalty  under  section 21(2)(c) 
and section 23(2) requires the CCE to have regard to such 
guidelines in exercising such power. 
 
2. This guideline is published under section 23(1) of the AMLO to 
indicate the manner in which the CCE will exercise the fining power 
under section 21(2)(c). The CCE will have regard to this guideline 
when exercising the fining power under section 21(2)(c) of the 
AMLO. 
 
Factors to be considered in exercise of CCE’s fining power 
 
3. As a matter of policy, the CCE will usually publicise all his decisions 
to impose pecuniary penalty. 
 
4. When considering whether to impose a pecuniary penalty and the 
amount of the penalty, the CCE will consider all of the circumstances 
of the particular case, including the factors described below that are 
relevant.
2 
 
 
5. A pecuniary penalty imposed by the CCE should act as a deterrent to 
the MSO concerned from contravening a specified provision as 
defined by section 5(11) of the AMLO and should also act as a 
general deterrent to other MSOs from contravening the same or 
similar specified provisions. 
 
6. Although section 21(2)(c)(ii) states that one alternative maximum 
level of fine that can be imposed is three times the amount of the 
profit gained, or costs avoided, by the financial institution concerned 
as a result of the contravention in question, the CCE will not 
automatically link the fine imposed in any particular case with the 
profit gained, or costs avoided. 
 
7. A fine should not have the likely effect of putting the MSO concerned 
in financial jeopardy. In considering this factor, the CCE will take into 
account the size and financial resources of the MSO. 
 
8. The more serious the contravention, the greater the likelihood that the 
CCE will impose a pecuniary penalty and that the size of the penalty 
will be larger. 
 
9. In determining the seriousness of a contravention, the CCE will 
consider all of the circumstances of the case and take into account the 
factors set out below that are relevant. The factors listed below are not 
exhaustive. Some of them may not be applicable in a particular case 
and there may be other factors which are relevant but are not listed 
below. 
 
(a) The nature, seriousness and impact of the contravention, including: 
 
(i) 
whether the contravention is intentional or reckless or 
negligent - a contravention caused merely by negligence or 
conduct which only results in a technical breach is generally 
regarded as less serious; 
(ii) 
the duration and frequency of the contraventions; 
(iii) 
whether 
the 
contravention 
is potentially 
damaging 
or 
3 
 
detrimental to the reputation of Hong Kong as an international 
financial centre; 
(iv) 
whether the contravention caused or potentially caused loss to, 
or imposed costs on, any other person; 
(v) 
whether the contravention was committed by the MSO alone 
or whether as part of a group and the role the MSO played in 
that group; 
(vi) 
whether the contravention reveals serious or systemic 
weaknesses of the management systems or internal controls in 
respect of the customer due diligence and record-keeping 
procedures relating to all or part of that MSO’s business; 
(vii) whether the contravention was indicative of a pattern of 
contraventions; 
(viii) whether there are a number of smaller issues, which 
individually may not justify a pecuniary penalty, but which do 
so when taken collectively; and 
(ix) 
the nature and extent of any financial crime facilitated, 
occasioned or otherwise attributable to the contravention. 
 
(b) The conduct of the MSO after the contravention, including: 
 
(i) 
whether the MSO attempted to conceal its contravention; 
(ii) 
any remedial steps taken since the contravention or the 
possible contravention was identified, and any action taken by 
the MSO against those involved and any steps taken to ensure 
that similar contraventions will not occur in future; 
(iii) 
the degree of cooperation with the CCE, other relevant 
authorities and/or law enforcement agencies during the 
investigation of the contravention; and 
(iv) 
the likelihood that the MSO will commit the same type of 
contravention in the future if no or a lighter penalty is imposed. 
 
(c) The previous disciplinary record and compliance history of the 
MSO, including: 
 
(i) 
the relevant previous disciplinary record of the MSO, 
including its previous similar contraventions particularly that 
for which it has been disciplined before; 
4 
 
(ii) 
whether the MSO has previously undertaken not to engage in 
that particular conduct that results in the contravention; and 
(iii) 
any punishment imposed or regulatory action taken or likely to 
be taken by other relevant authorities on the same incident. 
 
(d) Other relevant factors, including: 
 
(i) 
whether the CCE has issued any guideline in relation to the 
conduct in question – generally the CCE will not take 
disciplinary action against an MSO for conduct that is in line 
with the guidance which was current at the time of the conduct 
in question; 
(ii) 
what action the CCE and/or other relevant authorities have 
taken in previous similar cases - in general similar cases should 
be treated consistently; 
(iii) 
the amount of any benefit gained or costs avoided by the MSO 
or any of its directors or employees as a result of the 
contravention; and 
(iv) 
as a mitigating factor, whether the MSO has promptly, 
effectively and completely brought the contravention or 
possible contravention to the attention of the CCE. 
 
 
May 2018 
Commissioner of Customs and Excise 
