香港海關 
Customs and Excise Department 
 
 
 
MSSB/MIS_06/2018 
31 July 2018  
Circular to Money Service Operators   
 
           Anti-Money Laundering/Counter-Terrorist Financing 
 
Cross-boundary Movement of Physical Currency and Bearer 
Negotiable Instruments Ordinance 
                 
The Customs and Excise Department (‘C&ED’) reminded money service operators 
(‘MSOs’) that the Cross-boundary Movement of Physical Currency and Bearer 
Negotiable Instruments Ordinance (Chapter 629) (‘the Ordinance’) came into 
operation on 16 July 2018.  The Ordinance implements Recommendation 32 of the 
Financial Action Task Force to strengthen the prevention of money laundering and 
terrorist financing through the cross-boundary transportation of currency and bearer 
negotiable instruments (‘CBNIs’).  
 
Under the Ordinance, a traveller who arrives in Hong Kong via a specified control 
point and is in possession of a large quantity of CBNIs (i.e. the total value of which is 
more than HK$120,000) must make a written declaration to a Customs officer, using 
the Red Channel under the Red and Green Channel System.  
 
A traveller who arrives in Hong Kong not via a specified control point, or who is about 
to leave Hong Kong must disclose upon the request of a Customs officer whether he 
or she is in possession of a large quantity of CBNIs and, if so, make a written 
declaration.  
 
Declaration forms are available at the Red Channel of the Customs Arrival Hall and 
on the website of the C&ED. 
 
For a large quantity of CBNIs imported or exported in a cargo consignment, an 
advance declaration must be made to the C&ED through the Currency and Bearer 
Negotiable Instruments Declaration System accessible at the website of the C&ED. 
 
Persons who do not comply with the Ordinance will be liable to a maximum penalty of 
a fine of HK$500,000 and imprisonment for two years.    
 
For details of the Ordinance, please visit the C&ED's designated webpage at 
http://www.customs.gov.hk/en/enforcement/cds/index.html or call the C&ED's hotline 
at 2815 7711. 
 
Should you have any questions regarding the contents of this circular, please contact 
us on 2707 7819. 
 
 
Money Service Supervision Bureau 
Customs and Excise Department 
 
End 
 
Circular 
