 
香港海關 
Customs and Excise Department 
 
 
1 
 
MSSB/MIS_05/2021 
13 December 2021 
 
 
Circular to Money Service Operators  
Anti-Money Laundering / Counter-Terrorist Financing 
 
Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Risks 
Associated with Delivery Channels 
 
In view of recent incidents involving unfulfilled cross-border / cross boundary remittance 
by Money Service Operators (“MSOs”) in which customers’ funds were frozen by the 
regulatory bodies or law enforcement agencies in other jurisdictions, the Customs and 
Excise Department (“C&ED”) would like to remind MSOs to exercise increased vigilance 
on possible activities or transactions that are suspected to be related to the money laundering 
and terrorist financing (“ML/TF”), and to reiterate the importance of institutional risk 
assessment (“IRA”) conducted by MSOs, particularly on their delivery channel risks outside 
Hong Kong. Note1 
 
As elaborated in our circular issued on 13 August 2018 regarding the implementation of 
IRA Note2, MSOs are required to identify, assess and understand the ML/TF risks of their 
businesses, based on customer, jurisdiction, product/service, and delivery channel risks, and 
put in place anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing (“AML/CFT”) measures 
commensurate to those risks in order to mitigate them effectively.  Accordingly, to ensure 
the appropriateness and effectiveness of AML/CFT controls, MSOs should be aware of the 
scope and focus of IRA and review the adequacy of assessment in response to emerging 
threats arising from the original or changed modes of operation.  
 
In particular, when establishing or maintaining business relationships with potential or 
existing customers, business partners, and/or counterparties who are part of the MSOs’ 
delivery channels for effecting the remittance, MSOs should exercise caution in assessing 
the extent to which these channels are vulnerable to ML/TF abuse.  Also, these channels 
should be reviewed by MSOs on a regular basis to comply with the latest regulatory 
requirements and mitigate the potential ML/TF risks in the jurisdictions concerned. 
 
The C&ED would like to reiterate that all MSOs are required to establish and maintain 
adequate and appropriate risk-based controls to protect consumer interest and address any 
ML/TF risks emanating from the use of particular delivery channels.  Specifically, section 
19(3) of Schedule 2 to the Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorist Financing 
Ordinance (Cap. 615) (“AMLO”) requires MSOs to establish and maintain effective 
procedures not inconsistent with the AMLO for the purposes of carrying out specified duties 
under Schedule 2 to the AMLO Note 3, in respect of each kind of customer, business 
relationship, product and transaction. MSOs are also obliged to conduct enhanced due 
                                                 
 
Note1 Paragraph 2.6 of the Guideline on AML/CFT (For MSOs) requires MSOs to take into account higher risks 
identified, including higher risks notified to the MSOs by the C&ED, in their IRA. 
Note2 The relevant circular can be found at https://eservices.customs.gov.hk/MSOS/downloadFile?id=166599. 
Note3 Sections 3, 4, 5, 9, 10 and 15 of Schedule 2 to the AMLO. 
 
Circular 
 
香港海關 
Customs and Excise Department 
 
 
2 
 
diligence (EDD) when encountering high risk customers or transactions. 
 
Furthermore, MSOs are reminded of their statutory obligation that where MSOs know or 
suspect that any transactions or relationships they have or have had involving property that 
represents any proceeds of drug trafficking, an indictable offence Note4 or is terrorist property, 
they should, as soon as reasonably practical, file a suspicious transaction report with the 
Joint Financial Intelligence Unit (JFIU). 
 
The C&ED expects each MSO to have comprehensive risk assessment before engaging 
other parties in its business model, as well as to pay attention to the relevant risks associated 
with delivery channels and consider their impact on the relevant AML/CFT policies, 
procedures and controls in a risk-based manner and take appropriate steps to ensure 
compliance with all applicable requirements under the MSO regulatory regime. 
 
 
Money Service Supervision Bureau 
Customs and Excise Department 
 
 
 
End 
                                                 
 
Note4 Section 25(4) of the Organized and Serious Crimes Ordinance (Cap. 455) (“OSCO”) stipulates that an 
indictable offence includes conduct outside Hong Kong which would constitute an indictable offence if 
it had occurred in Hong Kong. So, for example, where it is shown that the relevant property came from 
some identifiable acts committed overseas, it will be caught by section 25(1) of the OSCO if such conduct 
constituted an indictable offence in Hong Kong, irrespective of the legal position in the jurisdiction where 
such conduct took place. 
 
