香港海關
Customs and Excise Department 
1 
MSSB/MIS_03/2023 
22 November 2023 
Circular to Money Service Operators  
Anti-Money Laundering / Counter-Terrorist Financing (“AML/CFT”) 
Supervisory Findings of Customer Due Diligence (“CDD”) Related Issues 
This circular highlights the deficiencies or inadequacies identified by the Customs and 
Excise Department (“C&ED”) from compliance inspections of licensees’ AML/CFT 
policies, procedures and controls (collectively referred to as “AML/CFT systems”).  We 
also provide expected regulatory standards and non-exhaustive examples of good practices 
to assist money service operators (“MSOs”) in reviewing the adequacy of their AML/CFT 
systems. 
Compliance inspections took an in-depth look at, among other measures, the 
implementation of risk-based CDD measures of selected licensees where some critical 
deficiencies and non-compliance were identified.  The critical areas to which MSOs should 
pay priority attention are as follows: 
1.
Inadequate consideration of pertinent money laundering and terrorist financing
(“ML/TF”) risk factors when conducting customer risk assessments, as well as
inadequate follow-up on the assessment results.  MSOs must address the assessed
ML/TF risks by reviewing whether the overall ML/TF risk level of any of their existing
customers should be elevated when any risk factor with which they are associated is
assessed to pose a higher risk than before.
2.
Failure to identify and take reasonable measure to verify the beneficial owner in
relation to the customer, and thereby undermining the effectiveness of an MSO’s
politically exposed persons (“PEPs”) and sanctions screening mechanism.
3.
Inadequate measures to verify authority of the person purporting to act on behalf of the
customer (“PPTA”) as required by the Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorist
Financing Ordinance (“AMLO”)1 and the Guideline on Anti-Money Laundering and
Counter-Financing of Terrorism (For MSOs) (“AML Guideline”).2
To facilitate compliance, the above-mentioned inspection findings as well as expected 
regulatory standards and examples of good practices3 are set out in the Appendix.  MSOs 
should review their AML/CFT systems in light of this circular and take immediate actions 
to rectify any deficiencies and non-compliance. 
1 Sections 2 and 3 of Schedule 2 to the AMLO.  
2 Paragraphs 4.5.1 to 4.5.4 of the AML Guideline. 
3 These examples are not meant to be exhaustive and should not be regarded as the only ways of meeting the 
regulatory requirements. 
Circular 
 
香港海關 
Customs and Excise Department 
 
 
 
2 
 
MSOs should consider and assess whether any of these practises should be appropriately 
adopted in their own AML/CFT system, in a bid to not only meet the legal and regulatory 
obligations under the AMLO and the AML Guideline, but also to implement effective 
measures to further mitigate their ML/TF risks. 
 
The C&ED will continue to monitor AML/CFT compliance and will not hesitate to take 
regulatory action, including enforcement and disciplinary sanctions, where appropriate, 
against MSOs for breach of the AML/CFT requirements.  As part of the ongoing effort to 
improve AML/CFT compliance, particularly in areas where deficiencies and inadequacies 
are detected, the C&ED will continue to provide regulatory guidance to assist MSOs in 
enhancing their AML/CFT systems. 
 
Should you have any queries regarding the contents of this circular, please contact us at 
3742 7787. 
 
 
 
Money Service Supervision Bureau 
Customs and Excise Department 
 
 
 
 
 
End 
 
 
 
香港海關 
Customs and Excise Department 
 
 
 
3 
 
Appendix –  
Deficiencies and inadequacies in meeting the expected regulatory standards 
 
(1) Customer risk assessment (“CRA”) 
Deficiencies or inadequacies 
 
Some MSOs failed to follow up on inconsistent information provided by customers 
(e.g. individual customers declared the purpose of the business relationships as 
personal remittance but provided company addresses as address proofs and claimed 
payment for goods as the transaction purpose) to ensure the conduct of adequate 
CDD. 
 
 
Some MSOs failed to provide sufficient guidance to their management and frontline 
staff on how to determine a customer’s overall ML/TF risk level based on a range of 
pre-defined risk factors.  This resulted in inconsistent ML/TF risk levels being 
assigned to customers with similar risk factors. 
 
 
Some MSOs did not maintain sufficient documentation to show how individual 
customers’ ML/TF risk levels were derived.  This undermined the effectiveness of 
any subsequent compliance reviews to ensure proper adherence to the MSOs’ 
customer risk assessment policies and methodologies. 
 
An MSO should properly identify and categorise ML/TF risks at the customer level by 
considering all relevant risk factors, differentiate customers presenting a higher ML/TF risk 
and apply enhanced measures to manage and mitigate the risk.4 
 
An MSO should provide sufficient guidance to staff and put in place adequate procedural 
safeguards to ensure that they conduct CRA in compliance with the regulatory requirements 
and the MSO’s policies.  MSO should, inter alia, ensure that their staff follow up on 
inconsistent information provided by customers to establish accurate customer profiles and 
require their staff to keep proper records of CRAs together with relevant documents to 
demonstrate how they assess individual customers’ ML/TF risk levels.5 
 
Where an MSO ascertains that a customer has misled the MSO about the purpose and 
intended nature of the business relationship, or identifies that the transactions carried out for 
the customer are not consistent with the MSO’s knowledge of the customer and the 
customer’s risk profile, the MSO should take prompt action (e.g. examining the background 
and purposes of the transactions; making appropriate enquiries to or obtaining additional 
CDD information from a customer) to identify if there are any grounds for suspicion.6  
Where the MSO cannot obtain a satisfactory explanation of the transaction, it may conclude 
that there are grounds for suspicion.  In any event where there is any suspicion identified 
during transaction monitoring, a suspicious transaction report should be made to the Joint 
Financial Intelligence Unit.7 
                                                 
 
4 Paragraphs 2.13 to 2.14 and 4.9.5 of the AML Guideline. 
5 Paragraph 2.16 of the AML Guideline. 
6 Section 5(1)(b) & (c) of Schedule 2 to the AMLO; Paragraphs 4.6.1 and 5.10 of the AML Guideline. 
7 Paragraph 5.12 of the AML Guideline. 
 
香港海關 
Customs and Excise Department 
 
 
 
4 
 
(2) Identification and verification of a beneficial owner 
Deficiencies or inadequacies 
 
In the case of corporate customers, some MSOs failed to obtain any reliable, 
independent source documents, such as certificates of incorporation or certificates 
of incumbency, to verify the identities of a corporate customer and its beneficial 
owners. 
 
 
Some MSOs failed to identify all beneficial owners (e.g. individuals who ultimately 
own or control more than a 25% interest) of a corporate customer and verify their 
identities. 
 
 
MSOs carried out screening of customers against a commercially available database 
to identify PEPs and individuals or entities subject to targeted financial sanctions. 
However, the scope of screening did not extend to the beneficial owners of the 
customers. 
 
It is a requirement under the AMLO that an MSO must identify customers and verify their 
identities by using documents, data or information from reliable and independent sources, 
as well as identify and take reasonable measures to verify the identities of beneficial owners 
in relation to the customers.  Beneficial owners in relation to a corporation include: (a) all 
individuals who own or control, directly or indirectly, more than 25% of the voting rights 
or share capital of the corporation; (b) any individuals who exercise ultimate control over 
the management of the corporation; and (c) any persons on whose behalf the customer is 
acting.8 
 
In determining what constitutes reasonable measures to verify the identity of a beneficial 
owner of a customer, an MSO should give due regard to the ML/TF risks posed by the 
customer and the business relationship.  Therefore, depending on the associated risks, 
MSOs should corroborate information collected from the customer with publicly available 
information for companies’ ownership and control structure (e.g. ownership chart) and 
shareholding information (e.g. annual return, significant controllers register). 9   The 
objective is to follow the chain of ownerships to the beneficial owners of the customer. 
 
An MSO must establish and maintain effective procedures for determining whether a 
customer or a beneficial owner of a customer is a PEP.  The name screening procedures 
for the identification of PEPs must cover not only the customer, but also any beneficial 
owners of the customer.10 
 
In addition, to avoid establishing business relationship with or providing any financial 
services to any terrorist suspects and possible sanctioned parties, irrespective of the risk 
profile attributed to the customer, an MSO is required to screen its customers and any 
beneficial owners of the customers, as well as all relevant parties in remittance transactions, 
against sanctions and designated persons lists.11 
                                                 
 
8  Sections 1(1) and 2 of Schedule 2 to the AMLO. 
9  Paragraph 4.4.3 of the AML Guideline. 
10  Section 19(1) of Schedule 2 to the AMLO. 
11  Paragraph 6.16 of the AML Guideline. 
 
香港海關 
Customs and Excise Department 
 
 
 
5 
 
(3) Identification and verification of PPTA 
Deficiencies or inadequacies 
 
MSOs’ procedural failure to obtain authorization documentations (e.g. board 
resolution or similar written authorization). 
 
 
Some MSOs failed to identify the corporate customer and treated a PPTA as the 
customer. 
 
According to the AML Guideline, an MSO should implement clear policies and procedures 
for determining who is considered to be a PPTA.  Whether the person is considered to be 
PPTA should be determined based on the nature of that person’s roles and the activities 
which the person is authorised to conduct, as well as the ML/TF risks associated with these 
roles and activities.12 
 
An MSO should adopt a framework of procedures in assessing who would ordinarily be 
considered a PPTA for each customer segment, with the approach and rationale consistent 
across the MSO’s departments.  As a general proposition, each legal person customer 
should have at least one PPTA (i.e. the person acting on behalf of a customer to establish 
the business relationship with the MSO as mentioned above). 
 
As indicated in paragraph 4.5.3 of the AML Guideline, the MSO is required to identify the 
PPTA by obtaining at least the following identification information: 
 
In the case of a natural person PPTA, (a) full name; (b) date of birth; (c) nationality; and (d) 
unique identification number and document type. 
 
In the case of a legal person PPTA, (a) full name; (b) date of incorporation, establishment 
or registration; (c) place of incorporation, establishment or registration (including address 
of registered office); (d) unique identification number and document type; and (e) principal 
place of business (if different from the address of registered office). 
 
Regarding the authorization to evidence the PPTA’s authority, paragraph 4.5.4 of the AML 
Guideline provides that “an MSO should verify the authority of each PPTA by appropriate 
documentary evidence (e.g. board resolution or similar written authorization).” 
                                                 
 
12 Paragraph 4.5.1 of the AML Guideline. 
