香港海關
Customs and Excise Department 
1 
MSSB/MIS_01/2024 
17 September 2024 
Circular to Money Service Operators 
Anti-Money Laundering/Counter-Terrorist Financing 
Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Risks 
Associated with Third Party Payments 
The Customs and Excise Department (“C&ED”) would like to draw Money Service 
Operators’ (“MSOs”) attention to the recent press briefing held by the Ministry of Public 
Security of the Mainland1, which reported on the effectiveness of measures taken to combat 
serious crimes derived from Macao’s “money exchange gangs”2.  The briefing highlights 
joint efforts of the Ministry of Public Security and the Public Security Police Force of Macao 
against cross-boundary money exchange syndicates which operate several criminal 
networks involved in illegal activities related to money laundering (“ML”) and underground 
money exchange with parallel trading of Renminbi and other currencies. 
The C&ED notes with concern that the syndicated ML activities in neighbouring regions 
pose heightened threats to the MSO sector given the geographic proximity and closely 
connected financial activities among the Mainland, Hong Kong and Macao.  Cross-
boundary remittance service offered by MSOs, particularly inward remittance initiated by 
transient customers, could be exploited as a conduit for transfer of crime proceeds.  In 
addition, the vulnerabilities of some MSOs are exacerbated by their acceptance of payment 
from third parties3, as criminals would attempt to use third party payments for transactions 
in order to obscure the identity of the beneficial owner or the source of illicit funds. 
In particular, an MSO should exercise care if there is suspicion that a customer may be 
effecting a transaction on behalf of a third party.  These transactions may be associated 
with one or more red flags which should arouse reasonable suspicion in MSOs.  If MSOs 
fail to take reasonable steps to detect or properly address apparent red flags, they may be in 
breach of legal or regulatory requirements.  MSOs may also be exposed to civil and 
criminal liabilities as a result of their involvement in the associated ML activities. 
1
News report by Xinhua News Agency
http://big5.www.gov.cn/gate/big5/www.gov.cn/lianbo/bumen/202407/content_6961469.htm 
2
For the purpose of typology, “money exchange gangs” refers to illicit groups that unlawfully provide large-amount 
currency exchange services for individuals and entities, as well as offer high-interest loan services to gamblers in 
Macao.  These illicit groups seek to circumvent the Mainland’s regulations on foreign exchange controls and 
overseas debit card withdrawal limit, by illegally exchanging substantial amounts of Hong Kong dollars in cash for 
gamblers. 
3
For the purpose of this circular, “third party” means any person other than the customer. 
Circular 
香港海關
Customs and Excise Department 
2 
Purpose of this circular 
The C&ED continually monitors anti-money laundering and counter-financing of terrorism 
(“AML/CFT”) trends relating to the MSO sector and promulgates guidance and circulars 
from time to time as necessary to assist the sector in identifying suspicious transactions and 
remaining vigilant on risk trends.  In connection with the vulnerabilities associated with 
the acceptance of payment from third parties, this circular serves to: 

remind MSOs of their existing obligations under the Anti-Money Laundering and
Counter-Terrorist Financing Ordinance, Chapter 615 (“AMLO”) and Guideline on
AML/CFT (For MSOs) (“AML/CFT Guideline”);

provide examples of the more common red flags/potentially higher risk factors
identified to date; and

set out the expected regulatory standards to facilitate MSOs’ compliance in managing
associated ML risks.
Obligations of MSOs 
MSOs should pay heed to red flags/potentially higher risk factors and critically review and 
enhance their AML/CFT policies, procedures and controls (collectively referred to as 
“AML/CFT Systems”) for the purpose of complying with relevant legal and regulatory 
requirements, including: 

section 5(1)(b) of Schedule 2 to the AMLO, requiring MSOs to continuously monitor
their business relationship with customers by conducting appropriate scrutiny of
transactions (cash and non-cash transactions) carried out for the customers to ensure
that they are consistent with the MSO’s knowledge of the customer and the customer’s
business, risk profile and source of funds;

section 5(1)(c) of Schedule 2 to the AMLO, requiring MSOs to identify transactions
that are complex, unusually large in amount or of an unusual pattern; and have no
apparent economic or lawful purpose;

section 23 of Schedule 2 to the AMLO, requiring MSOs to take all reasonable measures
to ensure that proper safeguards exist to mitigate money laundering and terrorist
financing (“ML/TF”) risks and to prevent a contravention of any requirement under
Part 2 or 3 of Schedule 2 to the AMLO;

paragraph 3.2 of the AML/CFT Guideline, requiring MSOs to put in place appropriate
AML/CFT Systems to effectively manage and mitigate the risks that are relevant to the
MSO and take enhanced measures to manage and mitigate the risks where higher risks
are identified; and

paragraph 4.4.5 of the AML/CFT Guideline, requiring MSOs to make appropriate
enquiries about customers who are individuals, where there are indications that the
customer is not acting on his own behalf.
香港海關
Customs and Excise Department 
3 
Red flags/potentially higher risk factors 
In general, if a transaction carries the name of a third party as the payer or otherwise does 
not appear to be consistent with the usual business/activity of the customer, the customer 
should be asked to provide further explanation of the nature of the remittance.  MSOs 
should be vigilant in looking out for red flags/potentially higher risk factors that may arouse 
reasonable suspicion in MSOs or their staff of transactions for illegitimate purposes. 
The following is a non-exhaustive illustrative list of red flags/potentially higher risk factors: 

transactions which are incompatible with the MSO’s knowledge and experience of the
customer in question or with the purpose of the relevant business transaction, for
example, a mismatch between the economic activity, place of origin, or person and the
remittances received/sent;

multiple customers appear to be trying to avoid customer due diligence (“CDD”)
requirements to be conducted by the MSO and seem to be working together to break
one transaction into two or more transactions below CDD thresholds;

a concentration of seemingly unrelated customers that share the same transaction
pattern (for example, transferring funds to a single individual’s account);

transfers of large sums of money to or from a place outside Hong Kong with
instructions for payment in cash.  The circumstances would be more suspicious if the
originators or recipients are walk-in and non-resident customers instructing the MSO
to carry out a single transaction;

transactions which are carried out by the customer on behalf of a third party without
an appropriate business relationship with such party;

a large number of seemingly unrelated customers having authorised the same third
party (who is not a regulated person or entity) to give instructions to the MSO to
conduct various activities through the business relationship established;

frequent or large fund transfers carried out by the customer which are funded by a third
party without a credible commercial rationale or explanation; and

customers who cannot immediately provide additional identification documents as
required.
香港海關
Customs and Excise Department 
4 
Expected standards on key control measures 
MSOs are reminded to enforce appropriate and effective control measures which are capable 
of addressing these risks and meeting the requirements set out in the AMLO and relevant 
guidelines and circulars4 .  MSOs are required to take reasonable steps and implement 
robust AML/CFT Systems to learn about their customers, identify the beneficial owner of 
transactions, detect potential illegal activities, make prompt follow-up enquiries and report 
suspicious transactions where necessary. 
The expected regulatory standards on key control measures are provided as follows to assist 
MSOs in reviewing the adequacy of their AML/CFT Systems for mitigating the risks 
associated with the use of third party payments for fund transfers: 

General
1.
MSOs should critically assess the risk of being inadvertently exposed to crimes
as well as legal and compliance risks.  In particular, MSOs should take
reasonable steps to identify and establish the true and full identity of each
customer and beneficial owner, and give serious consideration to refusing third
party payments.
2.
MSOs which accept third party payments should put in place clear and detailed
policies and procedures for scrutinising them and ensuring that the acceptance of
third party payments is subject to stringent management approval.  These
AML/CFT Systems should be approved by senior management, effectively
communicated to all relevant staff members and enforced through robust
compliance monitoring programmes.
3.
MSOs which are unable to put in place adequate control measures to mitigate the
inherently high risks and meet the relevant regulatory requirements should not
accept any third party payment.

Policies and procedures
4.
Third party payments should be accepted only under exceptional and legitimate
circumstances and when they are reasonably in line with the customer’s profile
and normal commercial practices.  These policies and procedures should be
approved by senior management and address, among others:
(a)
the exceptional and legitimate circumstances under which third party
payments may be accepted and their evaluation criteria;
(b)
the monitoring systems and controls for identifying transactions involving
third party payments in the form of funds;5
4
See also Supervisory Findings of Customer Due Diligence (“CDD”) Related Issues dated 22 November 2023 and 
Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Risks Associated with Delivery Channels dated 13 December 2021. 
5
For example, MSOs should obtain supporting documents (e.g. bank statements and advice slips) from customers to 
ascertain whether payments have come from third parties. 
香港海關
Customs and Excise Department 
5 
(c)
if applicable, the due diligence process for assessing whether third party
payments meet the evaluation criteria for acceptance;
(d)
the enhanced monitoring of client accounts involving third party payments,
and the reporting of any ML/TF suspicions identified to the Joint Financial
Intelligence Unit (“JFIU”); and
(e)
the respective designated managers or staff members responsible for carrying
out these policies and procedures.
5.
To facilitate the prompt identification of the sources of payments in the form of
funds, MSOs are strongly encouraged to require their customers to designate bank
accounts held in their own names for the making of all payments.  This will make
it easier for MSOs to ascertain whether funds have originated from their
customers or to complete the necessary due diligence process to determine the
acceptability of a third-party payer before effecting a third party payment.

Due diligence process for assessing third party payments
6.
Due diligence process for assessing third party payments should include:
(a)
critically evaluating the reasons of and the need for third party payments;
(b)
taking reasonable measures on a risk-sensitive basis to (i) verify the identities
of the third parties; and (ii) ascertain the relationship between the third
parties and the customers;
(c)
obtaining approval from senior management with a relevant role at the MSO
with respect to AML/CFT for the acceptance of a third party payment; and
(d)
documenting the findings of enquiries made and corroborative evidence
obtained during the due diligence process as well as the approval of a third
party payment.
7.
Given that not all third-party payers pose the same level of ML/TF risk,6 MSOs
should apply enhanced scrutiny to those third parties which might pose higher
risks, and establish the relevant customer’s or beneficial owner’s source of funds7
involved in the corresponding transactions.
6
Examples of third parties that are generally considered to pose relatively low risks include immediate family members 
(e.g. a spouse, parent or child), beneficial owners or affiliated companies of the customers, or regulated financial 
institution.  Other third parties pose higher risks. 
7
Source of funds refers to the origin of the particular funds or other assets which are the subject of the business 
relationship between an individual and the MSO (e.g. the amounts being invested, deposited, or wired/remitted as 
part of the business relationship).  Source of funds information should not simply be limited to knowing from where 
the funds may have been transferred, but also the activity that has generated the funds.  The information obtained 
should be substantive and establish a provenance or reason for the funds having been acquired. 
香港海關
Customs and Excise Department 
6 
8.
MSOs should exercise extra caution when the relationship between the customer
and the third party is hard to verify, the customer is unable to provide details of
the identity of the third-party payer for verification before the payment is made,
or a single third party is making or receiving payments for or from several
seemingly unrelated customers.8

Ongoing monitoring
9.
Ongoing monitoring of transactions involving third party payments should be
stepped up and MSOs should pay special attention to red flags relating to third-
party transactions.9  Identification of potentially suspicious transactions should
prompt follow-up enquiries and further investigation.  MSOs should be alert to
the possibility that the third-party payer is the true beneficial owner, and the risks
to which that may give rise.  Suspicious transaction reports should be made to
the JFIU when there are grounds for suspicion of ML or TF.

Staff training, record keeping and client communication
10. Clear and sufficient guidance should be provided for the staff responsible for
evaluating whether a third party payment is reasonable and meets the criteria for
acceptance (including examples of acceptable third-party payers) as set out in the
MSO’s policies and procedures.
11. The findings of enquiries made and corroborative evidence obtained during the
evaluation and approval of a third party payment should be properly documented.
12. MSOs should clearly inform customers of their policies for handling third party
payments.  These should include policies for rejecting third-party payments or
accepting them under exceptional and legitimate circumstances, and requirements
for customers to provide supporting documents to ascertain whether payments
have come from third parties and verify third party payer information.
MSOs are strongly advised to review the advisory circulars issued by the C&ED, assess 
whether any enhancements are required for their AML/CFT Systems and adopt appropriate 
and effective control measures with a view to mitigating the risks associated with third party 
payments and meeting relevant obligations. 
The C&ED will not hesitate to take enforcement actions, disciplinary sanctions and 
suspension or revocation of a licence, where appropriate, against MSOs for breach of 
statutory and regulatory requirements.  All material issues and deficiencies identified in 
this regard will be investigated.  These will include situations where there is reason to 
suspect that MSOs have knowingly facilitated third party payments as well as situations 
where it appears that they have failed to detect and act on any red flags, including inadequate 
procedures and controls. 
8
For example, MSO should further verify the identity of the third party with reference to additional identification 
documents, data or information that have not been previously used for verification purposes. 
9
Comprehensive red flags for third party payments should be defined in the MSOs’ transaction monitoring system. 
香港海關
Customs and Excise Department 
7 
Should you have any queries regarding the contents of this circular, please contact us at 
3742 7742. 
Money Service Supervision Bureau 
Customs and Excise Department 
End 
