 
香港海關 
Customs and Excise Department 
 
MSSB/MIS_02/2025 
30 May 2025 
Circular 
 
Circular to Money Service Operators 
 
Electronic Submission of Periodic Return for Statement of Transactions 
via Money Service Operators Licensing System 
 
In accordance with the Money Service Operators (“MSOs”) Licensing Guide, MSOs are 
required to submit periodic returns (“PRs”) to the Commissioner of Customs and Excise 
(“CCE”) in the form specified by the CCE in a timely manner.  Any failure to submit a 
PR on time may result in the suspension and/or revocation of the licence.  Under the 
existing mechanism, a PR is lodged quarterly based on the start date of the MSO licence, 
i.e. 4 submissions per year. 
 
With a view to allowing sufficient time for MSO licensees to prepare accurate 
information and facilitating the submission process, the Customs and Excise Department 
(“C&ED”) will adjust the lodgement arrangement for PRs with effect from 30 June 2025. 
 
The new lodgement arrangement is on a half-yearly basis, i.e. 2 submissions per year, 
in which the first return covers the transaction information from 1 January to 30 June of 
the respective year and the second return covers those from 1 July to 31 December.  For 
the purpose of staying abreast of the latest trend in the money service industry and 
formulating effective and appropriate regulatory measures for the money service 
business, the CCE also requires MSOs to provide additional information in the new PR 
including: 
 
⚫ 
foreign currencies involved in money changing transactions; 
⚫ 
jurisdictions involved in remittance transactions; and 
⚫ 
delivery channels used in remittance transactions. 
 
An Annex is appended for illustrating the data required in the new PR. 
 
With the new lodgement arrangement in place, all MSO licensees are required to lodge 
their first new PR, covering the transactions from 1 January 2025 to 30 June 2025, 
beginning from 1 July 2025. 
 
In addition, to further promote electronic services for various applications and 
submissions in relation to MSO licences, MSO licensees are required to submit new PRs 
via the electronic service of the Money Service Operators Licensing System (“MSOS”).  
The C&ED will no longer accept PR submission in paper form.  In this connection, 
MSO licensees are reminded to create a user account on MSOS in advance.  For more 
information on the creation of accounts, please refer to the MSOS website at 
https://eservices.customs.gov.hk/MSOS/wnr/001s0. 
 
Should you have any enquiries or need any assistance regarding the transition to the new 
PR practice, please email us at mso_feedback@customs.gov.hk or call us at 3742 7787. 
 
 
 
 
Money Service Supervision Bureau 
Customs and Excise Department 
End 
 
 
 
ANNEX 
Key Points of Submitting Data in the Revamped Periodic Return 
 
 
⚫ Ensure that you have an account on the Money Service Operators Licensing System (“MSOS”). 
 
⚫ Lodge periodic returns on the MSOS twice a year, i.e. the first lodgement of each year for the period 
from 1 January to 30 June; and the second lodgement for the period from 1 July to 31 December. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Input the amount 
of 
all 
foreign 
currencies 
in 
DESCENDING 
order 
Input the data related 
to 
MONEY 
CHANGING 
ONLY, 
excluding 
the 
amount involved in 
remittance 
transactions in Part 1 
 
 
ANNEX 
Key Points of Submitting Data in the Revamped Periodic Return 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Input the relevant 
ratios 
of 
(a) 
delivery channels 
used and (b) types 
of 
customers 
served 
in 
remittance 
transactions 
 
The totals must be 
100% 
Input 
the 
amount 
of 
remittance 
transactions in 
DESCENDING 
order 
 
 
ANNEX 
Key Points of Submitting Data in the Revamped Periodic Return 
 
 
 
Input the ESTIMATED 
total amount of assets 
