 
香港海關 
Customs and Excise Department 
 
 
1 
 
MSSB/MIS_01/2026 
20 January 2026 
 
 
Circular to Money Service Operators 
Anti-Money Laundering/Counter-Terrorist Financing 
 
Guidance on combating Money Laundering 
Associated with Trade-based activities 
 
The Customs and Excise Department (“C&ED”) would like to draw Money Service 
Operators’ (“MSOs”) attention to the recent trade-based money laundering (“TBML”) 
typologies that involve the use of falsified trade documents, such as fake contracts and 
invoices, to create bogus transaction records and disguise illicit money as legitimate trade 
income. 
 
TBML is the process of disguising the proceeds of crime and moving value through the use 
of trade activities in an attempt to legitimise their illegal origins or finance criminal activities.  
The C&ED notes with concern that the syndicated TBML activities may pose heightened 
money laundering and terrorist financing (“ML/TF”) threats to the sector.  Cross-boundary 
remittance service offered by MSOs could be exploited as one of the conduits for transfer 
of the trade-based crime proceeds.  In particular, domestic and foreign criminal activities 
would attempt to use shell companies and fabricated document in order to obscure the 
identity of the beneficial owner or the source of illicit funds.  
 
In this connection, the risk indicators designed by the Financial Action Task Force (“FATF”) 
are provided to enhance the ability of MSOs to identify suspicious activities associated with 
the TBML.  The relevant FATF website: https://www.fatf-gafi.org/content/dam/fatf-
gafi/reports/Trade-Based-Money-Laundering-Risk-Indicators.pdf 
 
Furthermore, MSOs are reminded to establish adequate and effective anti-money laundering 
and counter-financing of terrorism (“AML/CFT”) controls and continually make 
enhancement in some areas in order to respond to the evolving and increasingly 
sophisticated ML/TF methods used by criminal syndicates: 
 
1. Understanding of ML/TF risks 
 
MSOs’ customer risk assessment frameworks should be capable of identifying 
customers with higher ML/TF risks.  In addition, MSOs should ensure that they 
adequately understand and assess the reasonableness of customer characteristics and/or 
material changes in customer profiles, and then apply effective additional controls 
proportionate to their ML/TF risks.  Particular attention should also be given to 
flagging and escalating cases to MSOs’ senior management where multiple risk 
indicators are present on the customers.  These efforts need to be supported by 
adequate training and guidance to staff to facilitate sufficient ML/TF risk awareness in 
both the first and second lines of defence. 
Circular 
 
香港海關 
Customs and Excise Department 
 
 
2 
 
 
2. Customer due diligence (“CDD”) 
 
Besides establishing CDD policies and procedures which meet the statutory and 
regulatory requirements under the Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorist 
Financing Ordinance, Chapter 615 (“AMLO”) and the Guideline on AML/CFT (For 
MSOs), MSOs should ensure the implementation of their CDD measures are effective 
and proportionate to the ML/TF risks associated with customers.  MSOs should apply 
Enhanced Due Diligence (“EDD”) requirements to customers with high ML/TF risks.  
The implementation of either CDD or EDD needs to be supported by adequate 
understanding and assessment of the customers’ business and risk profiles and business 
relationship.  MSOs should also consider obtaining information on the Source of 
Funds (“SoF”) and Source of Wealth (“SoW”) of the customers for having a better 
understanding on their profiles. 
 
Moreover, MSOs should pay attention to the much higher ML and TF risks posed for 
customers who are newly established legal entities without significant assets, 
employees and/or active business operations.  MSOs should proactively consider to 
apply anti-fraud procedures for scrutinizing information obtained from customers in 
order to verify the genuineness of the transaction and assess the likelihood of shell 
companies involved as an originator or a recipient in the concerned transaction.  MSO 
should also periodically review the obtained documents, data and information relating 
to the customers to ensure that they are up-to-date and relevant. 
 
3. Transaction monitoring (“TM”) 
 
Ongoing monitoring is an essential component of effective AML/CFT Systems.  The 
TM systems of MSOs should be able to effectively identify and generate alerts for 
unusual or suspicious transactions.  MSOs should ensure appropriate steps are taken 
(e.g. examining the background and purposes of the transactions; making appropriate 
enquiries to or obtaining additional CDD information from a customer) to identify if 
there are any grounds for suspicion, instead of closing generated TM alerts without 
sufficient justification and analysis.  MSOs should also adequately assess the 
reasonableness of transactions taking into account the customer risk profiles, SoF / SoW 
and historical transactions. 
 
4. Filing Suspicious Transaction Reports (“STR”) 
 
The C&ED reiterates that MSOs are required to report an STR where they suspect that 
a transaction is associated with proceeds of crime or terrorist property, together with 
any matter on which the knowledge or suspicion is based.  Specifically, when an MSO 
holds information concerning both the originator and the recipient of funds, the MSO 
should take into account all of this information in determining whether an STR has to 
be filed.  The reporting obligations require a person to report suspicions of ML/TF 
irrespective of the amount involved.  The obligations also apply whether or not a 
transaction was actually conducted and cover attempted transactions. 
 
 
 
香港海關 
Customs and Excise Department 
 
 
3 
 
MSOs should review their existing AML/CFT controls through a gap analysis, and give 
consideration to optimising their AML/CFT controls based on the areas for enhancement 
outlined above with a view to mitigating the risks associated with TBML and other evolving 
and increasingly sophisticated methods used by criminal syndicates. 
 
 
Should you have any queries regarding the contents of this circular, please contact us at 
3742 7742. 
 
 
Money Service Supervision Bureau 
Customs and Excise Department 
 
 
End 
